National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) 
The NYSC Decree 
 
SECTION 1 
1. There is hereby established a scheme to be known as the National Youth 
Service corps (in this Decree referred to as "the Service Corps"). 
2. The service corps shall with a view to: 
a. The proper encouragement and development of common ties among 
the youths of Nigeria 
b. the promotion of national unity 
c. development of the youths of Nigeria and Nigeria into a great and 
dynamic economy, be charged with the functions as pertain to the 
objectives of the service corps set out in subsection (3) of this section. 
3. The objectives of the service corps shall be: 
a. to inculcate discipline in Nigerian youths by instilling in them a tradition 
of industry at work, and of patriotic and loyal service to Nigeria in any 
situation they may find themselves 
b. to raise the moral tone of the Niqerian youths by giving them the 
opportunity to learn about higher ideals of national achievements, social 
and cultural improvement 
c. to develop in the Nigerian youths the attitudes of mind, acquired 
through shared experience and suitable training, which will make them 
more amenable to mobilization in the national interest 
d. to enable Nigerian youths acquire the spirit of self-reliance by 
encouraging them to develop skills for self-employment 
e. to contribute to the accelerated growth of the national economy 
f. to develop common ties among the Nigerian youths and promote 
national unity and integration 
g. to remove prejudices, eliminate ignorance-and confirm at first hand the 
many similarities among Nigerians of all ethnic groups 
h. to develop a sense of corporate existence and common destiny of the 
people of Nigeria 
4. In order to achieve the objectives in subsection of this section, the service 
corps shall ensure

a. the equitable distribution of members of the service corps and the 
effective utilization of their skills in areas of national needs 
b. that as far as possible, youths are assigned to jobs in States other than 
their States of origin 
c. that such group of youths assigned to work together is as representative 
of Nigerian as far as possible 
d. that the Nigerian youths are exposed to the modes of living of the 
people in different parts of Nigeria 
e. that the Nigerian youths are encouraged to eschew religious intolerance 
by accommodating religious differences 
f. that members of the service corps are encouraged to seek at the end of 
their one year national service, career employment all over Nigeria, thus 
promoting the free movement of labour 
g. that employers are induced partly through their experience with 
members of the service corps to employ more readily and on a 
permanent basis, qualified Nigerians, irrespective of their States of origin 
 
 
SECTION 2 
1. Subject to the provisions of this Decree, every Nigerian shall 
a. if, at the end of the academic year 1972-73 or, as the case may be, at the 
end of any subsequent academic year, he shall have graduated at any 
university in Nigeria 
b. if, at the end of the academic year 19'74-75 or, as the case may be, at the 
end of any subsequent year, he shall have graduated at any university 
outside Nigeria 
c. if, at the end of the academic year 1975-76 or, as the case may be, at the 
end of any subsequent year, he shall have obtained the Higher National 
Diploma, or such other professiona1 qualification as may be prescribed 
d. if, at the end of the academic year 1975-76 or, as the case may be, at the 
end of any subsequent academic year up to the end of the 1983-84 
academic year, he shall have obtained the National Certificate of 
Education, be under an obligation, unless exempted under $subsection 
(2) of this section or section 17 of this Decree, to make himself available 
for service for a continuous period of one year from the date specified in 
the call-up instrument served upon him

2. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1) of this section, with effect 
from 1st August, 1985, a person shall not be called upon to serve in the service 
corps if; at the date of his graduation or obtaining his diploma or other 
professional qualification - 
a. he is over the age of thirty 
b. he has served in the armed forces of the Federation or the Nigeria Police 
Force for a period of more than nine months 
c. he is member of staff of any of the following, that is 
i. the Nigerian Security Organisation 
ii. the State Security Service 
iii. the National Intelligence Agency 
iv. the Defence Intelligence Service 
d. he has been conferred with any National Honour. 
3. A person liable to be called upon to serve in the service corps shall serve for a 
continuous period of one year as from the date specified in the call-up 
instrument served upon him or, as the case may be, if a general or special 
notice to that effect is gi.ven in the prescribed manner; and when so called 
upon, such person shall make himself available for service and shall present 
himself at such place and time and to such person or authority as may be 
specified in the instrument or notice. 
4. The President, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces may, by Order 
published it, the Gazette, extend the application of the provisions of 
subsection (1) of this section to other categories of Nigerians who shall have 
obtained such diplomas, certificates or other qualifications as may "be 
prescribed in the Order from universities, colleges and other institutions of 
higher learning within or outside Nigeria, and the Order may specify different 
dates for call-up in relation to different categories of those affected or to be 
affected by the Order. 
 
 
SECTION 3 
1. There shall be established, a national Directorate in the Presidency, (in this 
Decree referred to as "the Directorate") which shall be the governing body of 
the service corps. 
2. The Directorate shall have a Governing Board which shall comprise the 
following ten members, to be appointed by the President, Commander-in-
Chief of the Armed Forces, that is -

a. a Chairman 
b. one representative of the committee of Vice-Chancellors 
c. one representative of the committee of Rectors of Polytechnics 
d. one representative of the Chief of Army Staff 
e. one representative of the Inspector-General of Police 
f. one representative of the Nigerian Employers Consultative Association 
g. three other persons, one of whom shall be a woman 
h. the Director-General 
3. A member of the Directorate other than an ex-officio member shall hold office 
for a term of three years from the date of his appointment and shall be eligible 
for reappointment for one further term only. 
 
 
SECTION 4 
1. The Directorate shall- 
a. draw up detailed programmes of training and schedules which shall be 
designed for achieving @the objects of the service corps 
b. ensure that such programmes and schedules are strictly adhered to'; 
maintain regular contacts with all universities, polytechnics and colleges 
in Nigeria and abroad where applicable 
c. assign members of the service corps to the programmed work in the 
States as provided by the Directorate 
d. co-ordinate the work of the State Governing Boards in furtherance of the 
objects of this Decree 
e. Assess and review, from time to time, the progress of the service corps 
f. Make and submit all statutory and other reports as may be required of it 
to the presidency 
2. The Directorate may delegate any of its foregoing functions to a State 
Governing Board, provided that such delegation shall not prevent the 
Directorate from exercising the functions so delegated 
3. Service in the Directorate is hereby declared as approved service within the 
meaning of the Pensions Act 
4. The Directorate shall have power to appoint, (including power to appoint on 
promotion and transfer and of confirmation of appointments) advance, 
terminate and discipline employees holding or acting in any office in the 
Directorate

SECTION 5 
1. There shall be for the service corps, a Director - General who shall be 
appointed by the President, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces 
2. The Director-General shall be the Chief Executive and shall be charged with 
general responsibility for matters affecting the day-to-day running of the 
service corps 
3. The Director-General shall be assisted by Directors at the National Directorate 
Headquarters and State Co-ordinators at the State Headquarters 
 
 
SECTION 6 
1. There is hereby established for each State, a National Youth Service Corps 
Governing Board with its office in the Office of the State Governor (in this 
Decree referred to as "the State Governing Board"). 
2. The State Governing Board shall be responsible for-  
a. arranging and providing accommodation, boarding, transportation, and 
providing other facilities which are essential for the welfare of members 
of the service corps and for the success of the scheme in the State 
b. assembling reports on members of the service corps and transmitting 
them to the Directorate 
c. arranging the provision of facilities for orientation courses and winding-
:up exercises; 
d. compiling information on such opportunities as there may be for 
employment in the State 
e. deploying members of the service corps within the State. 
3. The State Governing Board may delegate any of its functions specified in 
subsection (2) of this section to the National Youth Service Corps Local 
Government Committee established under section 8 of this Decree, provided 
that such delegation shall not prevent the State Governing Board from 
exercising the functions so delegated. 
 
 
SECTION 7

1. The State Governing Board in each State shall consist of the following 
members, that is-  
a. a Chairman who shall be appointed by the State Governor 
b. a member of the Armed Forces of the Federation 
c. a member of the Nigeria Police Force 
d. five other persons who shall be appointed from among persons 
concerned with the following sectors of the Nigerian economy at least 
one of whom shall represent-  
i. commerce and industry 
ii. agriculture and natural resources 
iii. local government 
iv. education 
e. the State Co-ordinator of the service corps 
2. All members of the State Governing Board, with the exception of the State co-
ordinator shall be appointed by the State Governor. 
3. The Governor of a State and the Chairman of the Federal capital Territory, 
Abuja shall be required to give to the State Governing Board a minimum 
annual subvention of N500,000 to enable it cater adequately for the welfare 
needs of corps members deployed to the State and such minimum subvention 
shall be provided before the commencement of the service year for which it is 
intended. 
4. Every State Governing shall be required to provide such other facilities and 
contribute to the implementation and achievement of the programmes and 
projects of the service corps in the State including but not limited to land for 
agriculture, orientation camps and transportation facilities. 
 
 
SECTION 8 
1. There is hereby established in each Local Government Area of a State, a 
National Youth Service Corps Local Government Committee (in this Decree 
referred to as "the Committee") with its office in the office of the Chairman of 
the Local Government. 
2. The members of-the Committee shall comprise  
a. the Chairman of the Local Government as the Chairman 
b. a traditional ruler 
c. a representative of the Nigeria Police Force

d. a representative each of the following Ministries, that is- 
i. education 
ii. health 
iii. social welfare and community department 
iv. the private sector 
e. the National Youth Service Corps Zonal Inspector 
3. The Committee established by subsection (l) of this section shall have 
responsibility to -  
a. provide for the welfare needs of corps members deployed to the Local 
Government Area 
b. arrange for the collection of corps members at the end of the orientation 
course and return them for purpose ')f the winding up exercise 
c. assist in the selection of the National Youth Service corps Honours 
Award Winners at the Local Government level 
d. ensure the security of corps members deployed to the Local Government 
Area 
e. guide and ensure the effective cultural integration of corps members 
deployed to the Local Government Area 
f. develop and execute integrated programmes for the development and 
transformation of the Local Government Area through various 
community development projects 
4. A Local Government shall be required to  
a. make financial provisions in its annual budget for disbursement to the 
Committee in its area of jurisdiction for purposes of the effective 
discharge of its functions as specified in this section 
b. through the Committee, provide the following, that is-  
i. welfare facilities including transport for the inspection of corps 
members 
ii. adequate accommodation 
iii. material resources for community development services 
 
 
SECTION 9 
1. The Directorate shall determine the place and time each person qualified to be 
registered under the provisions of this Decree shall be deployed.

2. The Directorate shall register each member of the service corps and shall 
deploy him for national service in the following undertakings and project, that 
is, in -  
i. hospitals 
ii. road construction 
iii. farming 
iv. wafer schemes 
v. surveying and mapping 
vi. social and economic services 
vii. teaching 
viii. food storage and eradication of pest 
ix. rehabili1ation of destitute and the disabled 
x. development of sports 
xi. all government departments and statutory corporations suitable for new 
graduates 
xii. development project of local councils 
xiii. the private sector of the Nigerian economy 
xiv. such other undertakings and projects as the President, Commander-in-
Chief of the Armed Forces may, by order, determine 
3. For the purposes of this section, priority shall be given to service in any of the 
undertakings or projects mentioned in subsection (2) of this section situated 
within such appropriate urban or rural areas of the Federation as may be 
selected by the Directorate. 
4. Before placing any member of the service corps in any of the undertakings or 
projects afore mentioned, the Directorate shall take into consideration the 
qualifications of each member, vacancies then existing, and priorities of 
national needs. 
5. In the discharge of its functions under this section, the Directorate shall not be 
compelled in any manner whatsoever to deploy a member of the service corps 
to any particular undertaking or project. 
6. An employer of corps members, whether in the private or public sector, 
pursuant to the provisions of this section, shall be required to expose the 
corps members to gainful working experience.

SECTION 10 
1. The Directorate shall cause quarterly returns and reports on each member of 
the service corps to be compiled by such officers including training officers as 
it may designate. 
2. The quarterly reports of each member of the service corps shall show-  
a. the extent of his interest in the undertaking or project 
b. the degree of comradeship he engenders amongst his fellow corps 
members and the . people within the community he is serving or has 
served 
c. industry at work, resourcefulness and initiative 
d. character, address, temperament and integrity 
e. leadership and readiness to accept responsibility 
f. special contributions to the host community 
g. any other information which may assist in evaluating the character of 
each me m be r of the service corps 
 
 
SECTION 11 
1. The Directorate shall, on completion of the service of a member of the service 
corps unless such person is exempted under section 17 of this Decree, issue 
him with a Certificate of National Service which shall contain such particulars 
as may be prescribed. 
 
 
SECTION 12 
1. For the purposes of employment anywhere in the Federation and before 
employment, it shall be the duty of every prospective employer to demand 
and obtained from any person who claims to have obtained his first degree at 
the end of the academic year 1973-74 or, as the case may be, at the end of any 
subsequent academic year the following-  
a. a copy of the Certificate of National Service of such person issued 
pursuant to section 11 of this Decree 
b. a copy of any exemption certificate issued to such person pursuant to 
section 17 of this Decree

c. such other particulars relevant there to as may be prescribed by or under 
this Decree 
2. It shall also be the duty of every employer to produce on demand to police 
officer, not below the rank of an Assistant Superintendent of Police, any such 
certificate and particulars or copies thereof 
 
 
SECTION 13 
1. Any person  
a. who fails to report for service in the service corps in the manner directed 
by the Directorate of as the case may be, prescribed pursuant to the 
provisions of this Decree 
b. who refuses to make himself available for service in the service corps 
continuously for the period specified in subsection (2) of this section, is 
guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of N2,OOO or to 
imprisonment for a term of 12 months or to both such fine and 
imprisonment. 
2. Any person who  
a. under the provisions of this Decree is not e1igible to participate in the 
service corps so participates or attempts to so participate is guilty of an 
offence 
b. having served m the service corps and has been duly issued with a 
Certificate of National Service or Certificate of Exemption as the case 
may be and is not eligible to serve under the same service corps so 
participate or guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine 
N4,000 or to imprisonment for a term of 2 years or to both such fine and 
imprisonment. 
3. Any person who fails to comply with or who contravenes or causes or aids or 
abets another to contravene any provision of this decree (not being a 
provision relating to the calling and liable on conviction to a fine of N5,000 or 
imprisonment for a term of three years or to both such fine and imprisonment. 
4. Any person who –  
a. in giving any information for the purpose of this Decree, knowingly or 
recklessly makes a statement which is false 
b. forges or uses or lends to or allows to be used other than in the manner 
provided by this Decree by any other person and certificate issued 
pursuant to the provision of this Decree

c. makes, or has in his possession any document so closely resembling any 
certificate so issued pursuant as to be calculated to deceive,Is guilty of 
an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of N5,000 or to 
imprisonment for a term of three years or to both such fine and 
imprisonment. 
5. Where an offence under subsection (3) of this section has been committed by 
a body corporate is proved to have been committed with the consent or 
connivance of, or to be attributable to any neglect on the part of, any director, 
manager', secretary or other official of the body corporate, or any person 
purporting to act in such capacity, he as well as the body corporate shall be 
deemed to be guilty of1hat offence and shall be liable to be prosecuted 
against and punished accordingly. 
 
 
SECTION 14 
1. Any person who not being a person serving in the service corps or duly 
authorised so to do, wears the uniform or any part of the uniform of the 
service corps is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of Nl,000 
or to imprisonment for a term of six months or to both such fine and 
imprisonment. 
 
 
SECTION 15 
1. The Directorate shall prepare and submit to the Presidency not later than 31st 
December in every year an estimate of its expenditure and income during the 
next succeeding year 
2. The Directorate shall keep proper accounts in respect of each year, and proper 
records in relation to those accounts and shall cause the accounts to be 
audited as soon as may be after the end of the year to which the accounts 
relate by a firm of auditors appointed from the list of auditors and in 
accordance with guideline supplied by the Auditor-General of the Federation. 
3. The Directorate shall prepare and submit to the Presidency not later than 30th 
June in each year, a report in such form as the Presidency may direct on the 
activities of the Directorate during the previous year, and shall include in the 
report, a copy of the audited accounts of the Directorate for the previous year 
and of the auditor's report on those accounts. 
4. The Presidency shall cause a copy of the report made under this section to be 
laid before the National Defence and Security Council.

SECTION 16 
1. The President, Commander-in-Chief may make such regulations as may be 
necessary or expedient for the purposes of achieving the objects of this 
Decree, and in particular, without injustice to the generality of the foregoing 
provisions -  
a. for the proper functioning and conduct of the work of the service corps 
b. setting out the programmes and schedules for the training of the 
members of the service corps 
c. specifying the procedure for call-up and the manner in which notification 
of call-up shall be made to members and prospective members thereof 
d. for providing funds for the use of the Directorate 
e. for the procedure for determining the medical fitness or otherwise of 
persons to be called- Lip and the manner in which such matter shall be 
determined 
f. other matters (unless it is otherwise provided expressly) required to be 
prescribed by this Decree 
2. The Directorate, may with the approval of the President, Commander-in-Chief 
make bye-laws for the proper administration of the service corps, and in 
particular-  
a. governing the pay, remuneration, allowances and other emoluments and 
expenses of the person affected 
b. in relation to the general discipline, control and welfare to members of 
the service corps. 
 
 
SECTION 17 
1. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, the Directorate may, with the prior 
approval of the National Defence and Security Council, by an order published 
in the •Gazette exempt any person from all or any of the provisions of this 
Decree, and may subject thereto and with such approval impose, in relation to 
any exemption, such conditions as it may think fit. 
2. For the purposes of subsection (1) of this section and with• the approval of the 
National Defence and Security Council, the Directorate may, on being satisfied 
that there is reasonable cause for so doing by an order, defer the calling-up of 
any person or category of persons liable to be called up for service in the

service corps for such period as may be specified in the order, and may subject 
to such approval reduce or extend the period of service specified in section 2 
of this Decree in relation to the service of any person category of persons 
liable to be called up. 
3. Where an order is made for an exemption of any person it shall be the duty of 
the Directorate to issue to that person a Certificate of Exemption in the 
prescribed form, and for the purposes of this section, where the service of any 
person in the service corps, is deferred or where the period of service is 
extended or reduced, as the case may be, pursuant to subsection (2) of this 
se'ttiol1, a Certificate of Exemption setting out such particulars or the 
prescribed particulars shall be is issued to such person. 
 
 
SECTION 18 
1. An employer of corps members shall, in determining the seniority of and the 
salary or other remuneration, pension and gratuity payable to a graduate who 
has completed a period of service corps and been duly', discharged there 
from, take account of that period of service and such salary or other 
remuneration, pension and gratuity shall not be less than that normally due to 
a graduate in comparable employment for the same period as the duration -of 
the first mentioned graduate's service in the service corps. 
2. An employer of corps members shall provide tile following, that is (a) basic 
accommodation and where it is not available, pay the minimum sum of N250 
per month in lieu of accommodation;  
a. all welfare facilities normally provided for the regular staff including 
medical Service 
b. transport or where it is not available, pay the minimum sum of Nl50 per 
month in lieu of transport 
 
 
SECTION 19 
1. The Public Officers Protection Act shall apply to every member of -the service 
corps and to any other person employed under any undertaking or project for 
the duration of his service in the service corps. 
 
 
SECTION 20

1. Notwithstanding the provisions of section 19 of this Decree any person 
aggrieved by any decision of the Directorate or by the exercise by the 
Directorate of any power under this Decree shall have the right of appeal to 
the 'Presidency in the first instance and the Presidency may, notwithstanding 
anything to the contrary in this Decree and subject to the approval of the 
National Defence and Security Council, confirm or reverse the decision of the 
Directorate or take such further measures in relation to the appeal as he may 
think just before any action may be commenced in any court of law in Nigeria. 
 
SECTION 21 
1. The National Youth Service Corps Act is hereby repealed. 
2. Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this section-  
a. all the amendments to the repealed enactment and all the subsidiary 
instruments made thereunder shall be deemed to have been made 
under this Decree 
b. any call up letter, register kept, registration effected, certificate issued, 
notice given, return made or thing done under the repealed enactment 
which immediately before the date of commencement of this Decree was 
in force or effect shall continue in force and have effect as if made, kept, 
effected, issued, given, made or done under the corresponding 
provisions of this Decree 
c. any form used and the requirement as to the particulars to be entered-in 
any form for the purposes of the repealed enactment which was in force 
or effect immediately before the date of commencement of this Decree 
shall continue in force and have effect as things prescribed under this 
Decree with forms or particulars as so prescribed 
 
 
SECTION 22 
1. In this Decree unless the content otherwise requires -  
a. Academic year - means the year of graduation 
b. Chairman of the Federal Capital Territory - includes the Mayor of the 
Federal Capital Territory 
c. Committee - means the National youth Service Corps Local Government 
Committee established by section 8 of this Decree 
d. Directorate - means the body established by section 3 of this Decree

e. Membership of the Directorate - means the membership as provided for 
by section 3 of this Decree 
f. Member of the service corps - means a person registered as a member 
of the service corps 
g. Service corps - means the National Youth Service Corps established by 
section 1 of this Decree 
h. State Governing Board - means the National Youth Service Corps 
Governing Board established by section 6 of this Decree 
i. State Committee - means a National Youth Service Corps Local 
Government Committee set up under section 6 of this Decree 
j. Presidency - means the office of the President, Commander-in-Chief of 
the Armed Forces 
2. For the purposes of this Decree, the reference to a "member of the service 
corps" includes, unless the context otherwise requires or it is otherwise 
expressly provided. a prospective member of the service corps or any person 
who is registered as a member. 
 
 
SECTION 23 
1. This Decree may be cited as the National Youth Service Corps Decree 1993. 
MADE at Abuja this 16th day of June 1993 
GENERAL I.B. BABANGIDA,  
President, Commander-in-Chief  
of the Armed Forces,  
Federal Republic of Nigeria. 
EXPLANATORY NOIE (This note does not form part of the above Decree but is 
intended to explain its purport) 
The Decree, among other things -  
a. repeals the National youths Service Corps Acts; 
b. specifies other objectives of the service corps 
c. specifies better conditions of service for corps members 
This NYSC Decree (Now Act) is part of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic 
of Nigeria (Section 315)