NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NATIONAL YOUTH 
SERVICE CORPS 
AND  
ELECTIONS IN NIGERIA 
    
 
 
 
 
 Editors  
Shuaibu Ibrahim 
Patrick Ukase 
Bem Japhet Audu 
Maryam Hamza 
Onah Peter Otumala 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

ii 
 
 
NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS AND  
ELECTIONS IN NIGERIA  
 
 
Copyright (c) 2021 Shuaibu Ibrahim, Patrick Ukase, Bem Japhet Audu, 
Maryam Hamza, Onah Peter 
 
 
 
All right reserved 
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 
stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any 
means electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, 
without prior permission of the author, who is the copyright owner. 
 
 
ISBN: 978-978-58821-2-4 
 
Note: Views and opinions expressed in the book are entirely those of 
the chapter contributors and not that of the Editors. 
 
 
Printed and Bound in Kaduna-Nigeria. 
Using environmental sustainable paper materials by 
Pyla-Mak Press and Publishers Limited 
Kaduna, Nigeria. 
+234(0)8023633763 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

iii 
 
 
NOTES ON CONTRIBUTORSNOTES ON CONTRIBUTORS NOTES ON CONTRIBUTORSNOTES ON CONTRIBUTORS    
Abah Danladi, PhD is a lecturer in the Department of History and 
International Studies, Federal University, Lokoja, Kogi State. 
 
Abasiama Joseph Nta, is of the Department of History and War 
Studies, Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. 
 
Abasiama Joseph Nta, is of the Department of History and War 
Studies, Nigerian Defence Academy. 
 
Baba Isaac Ibrahim, is a lecturer in the Department of History and 
International Studies, Federal University Lokoja, Kogi State. 
 
Barnabas M. Atime, is with the Department of History and 
International Studies, Prince Abubakar Audu University. Anyigba, Kogi 
State. 
 
Bem Japhet Audu PhD, is a lecturer in the Department of History and 
War Studies, Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. 
 
Emmanuel Osewe Akubor, is an Associate Professor in the 
Department of History, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife. 
 
Enoko E.K., is a lecturer in the Department of Political Science, Prince 
Abubakar Audu University, Anyigba, Kogi State. 
 
Gabriel Tyoyila Akwen, is in the Department of Political Science, 
Federal University Gashua, Yobe, Nigeria. 
 
Hannatu K. Ali, is a senior lecturer in the Department of History and 
War Studies, Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

iv 
 
Ineke, Ugbede Joseph, is with the Department of History and 
International Studies, Prince Abubakar Audu University, Anyigba, Kogi 
State. 
 
Maryam Hamza PhD, is a lecturer in the Department of History and 
War Studies, Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. 
 
Onoja I. Augustine, PhD is a lecturer with the Federal University of 
Kashere, Gombe State.  
 
Rabiatu Ibrahim Abdullahi, is of the Department of History and War 
Studies, Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

v 
 
CONTENTSCONTENTS CONTENTSCONTENTS    
 
Contents - - - - - - -          v 
Preface - - - - - - -          vii 
Acknowledgment - - - - - -          x 
Introduction  - - - - - - -          xi 
 
1. Democracy and Governance in Nigeria, 1960-2019: 
Challenges and Prospects 
Gabriel Tyoyila Akwen - - - - -          1 
 
2. National Youth Service Corps: Civic and Electoral  
Awareness in Nigeria, 1973- 2019 
Hannatu K. Ali  - - - - -          22 
 
3. Corps Members and Voters’ Education in Nigeria 
Barnabas M. Atime - - - - -          37 
 
4. Corps Members and the Conduct of Voter Registration 
Baba Isaac Ibrahim - - - - -          49 
 
5. Corps Members and the Conduct of the 2015/2019  
Elections 
Onoja Augustine  - - - - -          59 
 
6. Partnership for National Development:  NYSC, CSOS  
and Election Monitoring in Nigeria 
Abah Danladi  - - - - -          76 
 
7. The Welfare of Corps Member and Staff during  
Election Duties 
Emmanuel Osewe Akubor  - - - -          94 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

vi 
 
 
8. The NYSC and Elections in Nigeria: An Examination of 
the Challenges of Corps Members during the Conduct of  
Elections 
Rabiatu Ibrahim Abdullahi - - - -          115 
 
9. Security Challenges in the Conduct of Elections in Nigeria:  
A Study of NYSC Members Adhoc-Staff 
E. K. Enojo - - - - - -          132 
 
10. Youth Restiveness in Nigeria and its Effect on the NYSC 
Scheme 
Nta, Abasiama Joseph and Udoh Sebastine - -          153 
 
11. The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and Elections 
in Nigeria: Success, Challenges and Prospects 
Ineke, Ugbede Joseph - - - - -          172 
 
12. Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: An Overview of  
His Achievements as 18th NYSC Director-General 
Bem Japhet Audu and Maryam Hamza  - - -          190 
 
Index  - - - - - - -          210 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

vii 
 
PREFACEPREFACE PREFACEPREFACE    
It is a truism that there is an intricate nexus between democracy and 
elections. Conceptualized as a form of government in which 
authoritative power and sovereignty rest with the people, liberal 
democracy is largely and essentially people-centred. Election is 
generally described as a formal process of selecting a person for public 
office, or accepting or rejecting a political proposition by voting. An 
election is a formal group decision making process by which a 
population chooses persons to hold public office through voting. 
Invariably, there can be no democracy without free, fair and credible 
elections. 
Unfortunately, elections in Africa and particularly Nigeria, have over 
the years been fraught and marred by inherent inconsistencies and 
contradictions, thereby producing several post-elections challenges. 
For instance, since 1999, Nigeria has witnessed six successive general 
elections conducted by the Independent National Electoral Commission 
(INEC) after every four-year electoral cycle. Sadly enough, these 
elections have been fraught with several challenges such as outright 
rigging, ballot box snatching and violence. With the integrity of the 
electoral process highly questionable, elections in Nigeria, particularly 
since the return of democracy in 1999, have failed to provide, not just 
an enabling environment for smooth democratic transitions, but have 
also been unable to midwife a transparent and accountable leadership, 
and to a large extent, provide good governance and genuine 
development in the polity.  
This untoward development has had negative implications for the 
nation’s democratization process. Apart from throwing up illegitimate 
leaderships, maiming and killing innocent citizens, it has led to general 
apathy during elections. This is because each election generates tension 
and fear of possible large-scale intimidation and violence. There are 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

viii 
 
clear indications that even for those who were bold enough to go out 
and vote, their votes, did not count. It was against this background that 
INEC - Nigeria’s election management body, signed an agreement with 
the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) in 2010 which was 
subsequently reviewed in 2013, to utilize the services of Corps 
members in all subsequent election duties, following the successes 
achieved with the later in the conduct of the 2007 and 2011 elections. 
For over a decade since the signing of the Memorandum of 
Understanding (MOU), how has the INEC-NYSC partnership improved 
the quality of elections in Nigeria? What are the challenges involved in 
the process, and what possible measures could be taken to improve this 
partnership?  
These eleven chapters edited book attempts to address the various 
ramifications of elections in Nigeria, with particular emphasis on the 
various interventions of the NYSC Scheme in the nation’s electoral 
process since the INEC-NYSC MoU was signed in 2010. The chapters 
examined the legal and theoretical issues in NYSC-INEC partnership, 
the revision of voter’s registration exercise, voter education, the 
conduct of elections in Nigeria within the period under review, election 
monitoring; welfare issues for Corps members and staff during 
election, and security challenges, just to mention but a few. Given the 
submission of these scholars in their various chapters, there is a sense 
in which we can argue that the INEC- NYSC partnership has produced 
several positives for the nation’s democratization process. There is no 
doubt that the quality of elections have greatly improved in the last ten 
years but there are some loose ends that the partnership will need to 
improve upon, especially in the area of security. 
In conclusion, this book cannot claim to have addressed all the issues in 
the INEC-NYSC partnership in Nigeria’s electoral process, but reading 
through the various chapters, you will BE convinced that this volume is 
a critical intervention and contribution to elections and the electoral 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

ix 
 
process in Nigeria. This volume will not only stimulate renewed 
interest among scholars, policy makers and students, but will also go a 
long way in filling the gaps in relevant literature especially in the 
context of INEC-NYSC partnership.  
  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

x 
 
ACKNOWLEDACKNOWLED ACKNOWLEDACKNOWLEDGEMGEM GEMGEMENTSENTS ENTSENTS    
It is with profound gratitude that we acknowledge God Almighty, for 
without Him, this project would not have become a reality. We 
acknowledge with gratitude the chapter contributors for agreeing to 
write well-researched articles within a limited period. Their patience 
and perseverance in the course of this project is really commendable. 
We also thank our peer reviewers for their thought-provoking 
comments on the manuscripts. This helped tremendously in improving 
the quality of the chapters. Their patience through the peer review 
process is well acknowledged and commended.  
This project also benefitted immensely from some of the research 
institutions and libraries in and around Kaduna. Worthy of mention 
here are the Library of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), 
Yakubu Gowon House, Maitama, Abuja, Arewa House Kaduna and 
National Archives Kaduna. The staff and research fellows in these 
offices were very accommodating and helpful during the course of our 
research. 
Also, our profound appreciation goes to the Director-General of NYSC, 
Brigadier General (Assoc Prof) Shuaibu Ibrahim and his Staff who gave 
us unflinching support and ensured that this project is a huge success. 
Without the DG, the project would have suffered setbacks beyond 
measure. 
We acknowledge the support received from some of our dependable 
friends and colleagues. Most of them are Research Fellows of the Centre 
for the Study of Leadership and Complex Military Operations, 
(CSLCMO) Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. They are: Jamiu Yusuf 
Danga, Mohammed Liman Murtala, Suleiman Bilal Ishaq, Jack Jeremiah, 
Alabi Ezekiel, Helen Noor, Blaise L. Archibong, Matthew Emmanuel, 
Abdullahi Isah, Suleiman Bashir Mohammed and Longe Ometere 
Esther. Thank you all. 
May God Bless us all. 
Shuaibu Ibrahim, Patrick Ukase, Bem J. Audu, Maryam Hamza 
and Onah. P. Otumala.        April, 2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

xi 
 
INTRODUCTIONINTRODUCTION INTRODUCTIONINTRODUCTION    
    
Brief History of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) 
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) was established in 1973 by 
the government of General Yakubu Gowon. The history of the scheme is 
traceable to the events that took place in Nigeria towards the last half 
of 1960s. The years 1967-1970 were characterized by the Nigerian civil 
war. At the end of the war, the General Gowon administration came up 
with new policies that would promote post-conflict peace, 
reconciliation, rehabilitation and reconstruction. Consequently, the 
vital need for national unity led to the birth of the NYSC idea. The NYSC 
Scheme came into being through Decree No. 24 of 22nd May 1973. It 
states that the NYSC is being established with a view to the proper 
encouragement and development of common ties among the youths of 
Nigeria and the promotion of national unity. After 20 years of existence, 
the 1973 Decree was repealed and replaced with No. 51 of 16th June, 
1993, now referred to as the National Youth Service Corps Act, Cap. 
N84, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004. The Act is preserved by 
Section 315 (5) (a) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of 
Nigeria, 1999 (as amended), thereby, making the NYSC Act part and 
parcel of the constitution. 
According to Section 1(3) of the NYSC Act, the objectives of the Scheme 
are to:  
“(a)  inculcate discipline in Nigerian youths by instilling in 
them a tradition of industry at work and of patriotic and 
loyal service to Nigeria in any situation they may find 
themselves; 
(b) raise the moral tone of the Nigerian youths by giving 
them the opportunity to learn about higher ideals of 
nation achievements, social and cultural improvement;  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

xii 
 
(c)  develop in Nigerian youths the attitudes of mind, 
acquired through shared experience and suitable 
training, which will make them more amenable to 
mobilization in the national interest;  
(d)  enable Nigerian youths acquire the spirit of self-reliance 
by encouraging them to develop skills for self-
employment;  
(e)  contribute to the accelerated growth of the national 
economy;  
(f)  develop common ties among the Nigerian youths and 
promote national unity and integration;  
(g) remove prejudices, eliminate ignorance and confirm at 
first hand the many similarities among Nigerians of all 
ethnic groups; and  
(h)  develop a sense of corporate existence and common 
destiny of the people of Nigeria.” 
In order to achieve the objectives stated above, Section 1(4) of the 
NYSC Act provides that the Scheme shall ensure: 
“(a)  the equitable distribution of members of the service 
corps and the effective utilization of their skills in area 
of national needs;  
(b)  that are far as possible, Nigerian youths are assigned to 
jobs in States other than their States of origin;  
(c)  that such group of Nigerian youths assigned to work 
together is as representative of Nigeria as far as 
possible; 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

xiii 
 
 (d)  that the Nigerian youths are exposed to the mode of 
living of the people in different parts of Nigeria. 
(e)  the Nigerian youths are encouraged to eschew religious 
intolerance by accommodating religious differences;  
(f) the members of the service corps are encouraged to 
seek a year for their one year national service, career 
employment all over Nigeria, thus promoting the free 
movement of labour; 
(g)  that employers are induced partly though their 
experience with members of the service corps to 
employ more readily and on a permanent basis, 
qualified Nigerians, irrespective of the States or origin.” 
Basically, the aims and objectives of the NYSC is to reinforce 
institutional efficiency and effectiveness as well as youth development 
in the country. It is accepted in several quarters that NYSC is a viable 
platform for the transitioning of youths into self-reliant adults and the 
improvement of general welfare and development. The NYSC 
programme has since inception facilitated steady and effective supply 
and distribution of skilled manpower, breaking of social and cultural 
barriers as well as the building of friendly bridges across ethno-
linguistic boundaries. It has also assisted in the promotion of values, 
national unity and development, rekindled interest in neglected but 
vital areas of national development and promoted leadership qualities 
in the youths. The Scheme has four (4) cardinal programmes which are: 
Mobilisation/Orientation, Primary Assignment, Community 
Development Service and Winding-Up/Passing- Out Exercise. 
The maximum age requirement for youths under the scheme is thirty 
(30) years old. They are also engaged in community development 
programmes and activities. According to Section 2(2) of the NYSC Act, 
the only groups of youth exempted are those that have served in the 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

xiv 
 
Armed forces or the Nigerian Police for a period of more than nine (9) 
months or in the security agencies, those over thirty (30) years of age 
and those conferred with National Honours. In addition, the choice of 
youths above every other age group was based on the fact that they are 
considered the most active change agents needed in building a united 
Nigeria, and a way of achieving this is for the youths to imbibe and 
nurture a sense of common belonging and national consciousness 
which would transcend political, social, state and ethnic loyalties. 
At the onset of the NYSC in 1973, only 2,346 graduates were mobilized. 
However, judging by the evolvement of the Scheme, there has been a 
phenomenal increase in the number of graduates that are participating 
annually. NYSC is capable of bringing out the best qualities in Nigerian 
youth and imparting in them the right attitude and value for nation 
building that serves as catalyst to national development, sense of pride 
and fulfillment of its participating graduate youths. The criteria 
observed in the deployment of Corps members include:   
• the equality of states,  
• ability of states to absorb the service of participants,  
• posting based on concessional considerations (marital and 
health grounds), posting on demand from various federal 
government establishments,  
• the supportive role of a government is also increasingly 
becoming a factor in the placement of corps members,  
• the deployment of corps members has retained its traditional 
process with the majority of corps members going to the 
classrooms. 
The Scheme’s presence is felt and noticed in all the LGAs in the country, 
creating higher emphasis in the rural and grass root development in 
line with its objectives since inception.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Democracy and Governance in Nigeria, 1960 -2019:
1
1
Democracy and Governance in Nigeria, 1960-2019:
Challenges and Prospects
Gabriel Tyoyila Akwen
Introduction
All over the world, events like the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989, the
USSR's disintegration in 1991, and the end of the Cold War contributed
to democracy becoming the prevailing and most desired system
ofgovernment. In some parts of the world, democracy has been altered
to suit the people's peculiar cultural and political circumstances.
Despite this development, a few countries like China, Russia, and North
Korea have fervently refused to embrace democracy as the best means
of leading people (Ugbada, 201 9).Democracy may not be strange to
Nigerians. What may be bizarre to them is the type of democracy
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Gabriel Tyoyila Akwen
2
practiced in Nigeria. Nigerians expect that democracy should pave the
way for developing human and material resources for political stability,
scientific adv ancement, economic viability, technological breakthrough,
educational development, and life -enhancing social services (Ajayi and
Ojo, 2014). Given Nigeria's potentials at the time of independence, it
was thought that Nigeria would be the bastion of democra cy in Africa.
Ironically, regarding the practice and delivery of dividends of liberal
democracy, Nigerians are yet to enjoy democracy.
The practice of democracy in Nigeria was distorted at a point by
incessant military coup d’ etat. Notwithstanding, the Nig erian
experiences have shown that a coup d'etat cannot destroy democracy.
In Nigeria, democracy has survived every assault upon political liberty.
An indication that the actual layer of democracy has neither scepter nor
sword, but a baneful idea. Paradoxic ally, the lethal proxy is an idea
about freedom. In Nigeria today, freedom from want is a general goal.
Millions of people were destroyed by the effects of unemployment,
poverty, malnutrition, untreated illness, and inadequate education.
With this sad situ ation, Nigerian political leaders still see themselves as
the vanguards of social, economic, and political development. Most of
these political leaders still claim to be adheren ts of the principle of
accountability. Nevertheless, the essentials of development are more
required than the claims of democracy.
The current dispensation of democratic practice in Nigeria (1999 -
2021) has raised many issues, one of which is the blatant show o f
‘militarized political culture’ in the democratic era. One wonders why
the statesmen's political behaviour in a democratic period is that of
combative stance rather than dialogue, negotiation, and compromise as
claimed by democratic principles. This situ ation prompted Frank and
Ukpere (2012) to ask why politicians who were never enlisted into
military service acting like military commanders in Nigeria’s
democratic space. Furthermore, a 2008 public opinion survey covering
the post -1999 period disclosed tha t about 78% of Nigerians endorse
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Democracy and Governance in Nigeria, 1960 -2019:
3
democracy. Even with this optimistic viewpoint on democracy, only 42
% of the studied population were contented with Nigeria’s democratic
governance (AniKifordu, 2011).
The scenario discussed above shows that numerous chall enges are
facing democratic governance in Nigeria. It means that for Nigerians to
fully enjoy the dividends of democracy, most of these issues discussed
in one of the subsequent sections of this chapter need to be tackled.
Conceptual Discourse
Democracy, either as an idea or a governance system, has become
ambiguous in current political analysis. The term democracy has been
subjected to changing definitions, opposed interpretations, and
contradictions. This may be because democracy has been widely
complimented and embraced, with many people producing variant
strands of democracy to suit their purpose. Politicians from the farthest
left to the farthest right always claim that the type of rule they support
is the one that is democratic. In this light, Crick (1964) portrayed
democracy as the best promiscuous word in the world of civic affairs.
This is because democracy is what is moral for a country to be.
Therefore, even in places where democracy has experienced numerous
setbacks, it has gained momentu m compared to science and technology
since the Industrial Revolution.
Regardless of the above, some hypothetical attempts at explaining the
standard yet complicated and almost abstract definition of democracy
are made. Any reasonable attempt to comprehend democracy must
start with the ancient concept of democracy as the people's rule. Demos
and kratiaare Greek terms that mean people and law or authority,
respectively. As a result, democracy means "people's laws." This started
among the Greeks in the first half of the 5th century B.C., stating what
Robert Dahl refers to as the "transformation from rule by the few to
rule by the many" (Dahl, 1989). Although the assertion that democracy
started among the Greeks is contestable, there exist elements of
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Gabriel Tyoyila Akwen
4
democratic governance in most African societies without their contact
with the outside world.
During the French Revolution (1789 -1799), Maximilien Robespierre
(1758-1794), a French lawyer and political leader, described
democracy as a state in which the nation, as independent, guided by
rules of its own making, does for itself everything that it can do well
(Keping, 2018) . This description means that there are certain things
that "the people" are unable to do or do poorly. Then there is the issue
of what these thin gs are. So, who is it that does those things? Abraham
Lincoln gave what has since become the most famous description of
democracy in his Gettysburg Address. He asserted that all men are
created equal and defined democracy as the “government of the people,
by the people, for the people”. This definition makes the people the
subject and object of democracy, or put differently, the ‘reason for
governance.' This description has many advantages, but it, like all
others, has drawbacks. Since all men are supposedly created equal, why
emphasize the concept of equality?
In this context, we shall build on Lincoln's foundation to define
democracy as a representative government, where the rule of law,
constitutionalism, and the principles of equality and rights are
observed. In a contemporary representative democracy, there is a
distinction between rulers and ruled. In this situation, "once more, the
people are not admitted to the public realm, once more the business of
government becomes the privilege of the few” (Arend t, 1990: 237).
Thus, in most developing countries, instead of seeing representative
democracy as a nexus between State and society, it has become a form
of statist democracy, whose main aim is to eliminate the majority of the
population from political powe r.On the other hand, democracy should
be based on honesty, decency, and good governance whereby the will
of the people in choosing their representatives is most effectively -
respected ( Odeh, 2010). In this disposition, democracy refers to a
method of group decision-making that is characterized by equality
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Democracy and Governance in Nigeria, 1960 -2019:
5
among the participants at an essential stage of collective decision -
making.
On the other hand, governance is an English word derived from Latin
and ancient Greek, which means control, guidance, and manipula tion.
Its definition had long been confused with that of the term government,
and it was primarily used to refer to administrative and political
activities concerning national public relations. Diversely, western
political scientists and economists gave it a new definition in the 1990s.
Since then, the term has come to mean a lot more than it used to, and it
is nothing like what the word government used to mean (Keping,
2018). A democratic government is answerable to the people. Although
public officials (p olitical office holders and civil servants) are social
servants who represent society and the people, they have to fulfill their
end of the social contract. The government is in charge of ensuring
equality and promoting fundamental human rights. Heyman (20 14)
cites the reasoning behind the historical Bill of Rights, claiming that
those who wrote it were not concerned that the government would do
too little but rather that it would take on too much responsibility.
As a result of the above, government plays a role in achieving both of
these noble ideals of liberty and social good. According to the United
Nations, governance refers to the formal and informal structures that
regulate how public decisions are taken and how public acts are carried
out to uphold a country's constitutional principles. It is how a
community establishes and manages the laws that govern policy
development and implementation (United Nations Development
Programme [UNDP], 2007). Drawing from this:
governance presupposes a power structure with its
hierarchical categories, incorporating the economic,
social, cultural, and political tensions within the
society, and thus spreading out an inherent dynamism
that absorbs the ebbs and flows of pressures
towardsensuring peaceful and practical solutions to
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Gabriel Tyoyila Akwen
6
existential problems confronting the society and its
people (Yagboyaju and Akinola 2019:2)
Nzongola-Ntalaja's effort to isolate three significant styles of
governance is apt and vital in this context. The first is political or public
administration, in which the State, government, or public sector has
authority. It has to do with the mechanism by which a society organizes
and manages its affairs (Nzongola -Ntalaja, 2003). Second, economic
governance, here p ower is vested in the private sector and refers to
service delivery practices, procedures, or institutional mechanisms.
The final category is social governance, which is governed by civil
society, including individuals and non -profit organizations, which
refers to principles and beliefs required for social behaviour to occur
and for public decisions to be taken (Nzongola-Ntalaja, 2003). Besides,
governance can be seen as:
…the sum of the many ways individuals and
institutions, public and private, manage th eir common
affairs. It is a continuing process through which
conflicting or diverse interests may be accommodated,
and cooperative action may be taken. It includes formal
institutions and regimes empowered to enforce
compliance, as well as informal arrange ments that
people and institutions either have agreed to or
perceive to be in their interest. It has four features:
governance is not a set of rules or activity, but a
process; the process of governance is not based on
control, but on coordination; it invo lves both public
and private sectors; it is not a formal institution, but
continuing interaction (Commission on Global
Governance 1995:2-3)
We can deduce from the above definitions of governance that
exercising power keeps the peace and addresses the publi c's needs
within a specific range. The goal of governance is to use the power of
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Democracy and Governance in Nigeria, 1960 -2019:
7
various systems and relationships to direct, steer, and control citizens'
actions in order to maximize the public good. Governance refers to the
process of political administr ation, which includes the normative basis
of political power, approaches to dealing with political affairs, and the
management of public resources in terms of political concerns and the
administration of public resources.
There does not seem to be much of a distinction between governance
and government. They are, however, vastly different in terms of
semantics. According to many scholars, distinguishing governance from
the government is a prerequisite for a profound comprehension of
governance. Governance n eeds to be differentiated from the
conventional concept of government by the State from the very
beginning (Gaudin, 1999). Like government by the State, governance is
a political administration mechanism that involves authority and
power and essentially seeks to preserve a regular social order.
Nigeria’s Democratic Governance Journey (1960-2019) in Brief
On the attainment of independence -1
st
October 1960, Nigeria joined the
league of democratic states as the fourth world's largest democracy. As
earlier state d, Nigeria was arguably unique and accurately planned for
democratic governance. Nigeria was quick to break away from its
colonial constitutional legacy. Rejecting Britain's congressional system
of democracy, which they had continued after independence in 1960,
they preferred their first Nigerian -made constitution and adopted the
American model instead. They decided with characteristic rationality:
Nigeria, just like the United States, is significant, complicated, and
heterogeneous. As one of Nigeria's cons titution-makers said clearly,
what succeeds for the US may work for us (Herskovits, 1979).
Nevertheless, the first republic was brief, ending on 15 January 1966,
with a coup d'état. The military ruled the nation between this time and
1
st
October 1979, when civilian rule was restored. The return to
democratic rule resulted in adopting a federal constitution that
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Gabriel Tyoyila Akwen
8
featured a multiparty system, judicial independence, and separation of
powers, among other attributes. However, on 31
st
December 1983, the
military ab ruptly ended the process, and the nation remained firmly
under military rule until 29
th
May 1999, when a new democratic
experiment began. Though, unlike in 1979, the military did not
voluntarily relinquish authority this time. They were compelled by
many fa ctors that included the crisis engendered by the annulment of
the 12
th
June 1993, presidential election that late Chief M.K.O Abiola
glaringly won, pressure from the international community, and pro -
democracy agitators within Nigeria.
The factors listed above, as well as other issues, shook the country to its
base. The catastrophe was sparked by Ibrahim Babangida, the military
president who ‘dribbled’ Nigerians via a series of long -drawn
magnificent and intricate but questionable and cunning policies and
programs planned primarily for self -preservation in power and ended
up cancelling the freest election ever. The problem worsened under
General Sani Abacha's tyrannical and repressive government, which
came to power after Babangida was forced to "step aside ." Nigerians
were more eager than ever to drive the military out of control in the
face of these circumstances. The people's deep dedication to the
establishment of a democratic government paid off when the military,
led by General Abdulsalam Abubakar, who rose to power after Abacha's
sudden death, voluntarily relinquished power (2013, Omotoso).
Throughout the period of military rule in Nigeria, the principles of
democracy were swept under the carpet. The people suffered various
degree of human right abuses.
From the above analysis, Nigeria has tried democracy three times and
is now engaged in its fourth attempt. Coups d'etat undermined the first
two democracies, and the third barely got off the ground before being
overthrown by the military. According to Un gar (1989), Nigeria's post -
independence first five years were turbulent and violent, culminating
in two coups in 1966 that brought Yakubu Gowon to power. The
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Democracy and Governance in Nigeria, 1960 -2019:
9
acrimony and wrangling that typified these five years stemmed from
the fact that Nigeria had previ ously been a federation of three vast
regions; thus, ethnic rivalries were intensified when this all changed.
The proliferation of states brought about ethnic rivalries caused by
competition for the national cake and power (Anugwom, 2000).
Problems of Democracy and Governance in Nigeria
As expressed above, the democratic experience in Nigeria faced some
challenges shortly after the attainment of political independence in
1960.Since then, the problems of democracy in Nigeria are
compounding as new developmen ts unfold in the country. The first
problem that confronted Nigeria’s democracy was the incessant
military interferences in the polity. In many Nigerians' eyes, these
military interventions in politics portray democracy as an unstable
mode of governance. A t this point, western theories of military
intervention see the military as corrective regimes. They were assumed
to possess the ability to reconcile societal contradictions that the
civilians were unable to resolve. In all previous military interventions,
the military has consistently accused civilians, especially politicians, of
intolerance to the plight of the people, nepotism, tribalism, corruption,
and leadership incompetence, among other vices, commonly cited as
justifications for seizing power from c ivilians (Okaneme, 2020).
Poignantly, all the military regimes in Nigeria never acted contrarily to
the accusations they levied on the civilian leaders.
As a result of the long years of military rule, a militarized political
culture emerged, reflecting in the political exercises of the dramatis
personae in the democratic space. Nigerian political culture has been
undermined, and a militarized culture has taken root. Consequently, in
a democratic dispensation, the rule of procedure became that of order,
war rather than negotiation, disregard for court orders, and abuses of
human rights became the militarized civic culture principles. Those
mentioned above are the opposite of democratic ideals and norms.
Moral beliefs or quality of life that people admire for their own sake are
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Gabriel Tyoyila Akwen
10
examples of democratic ethos. Democracy is founded on a set of core
principles or norms. Freedom, equality, inclusion, justice, negotiation,
welfare, and compromise are among the principles that provide
democracy with inherent worth and give its structures and processes
their normative intent (Sodaro, 2008). Furthermore, Frank and Ukpere,
(2012:228) posit that:
…the militarization of governance engenders a
militarized civic culture, the outcome of which is
militarized psyche. Herein state d that there is
significant incongruence between the internalized
military culture, character, and the demands of the
democratic process. As a result, the democratic arena is
seen as an extension of the barrack. This point is given
credence to ex -military men's dominance as politicians
who are yet to be re -civilianized. This explicates the
behaviour of politicians since 1999. The behaviours are
the direct correlates of the dialectics of military
governance.
Aside from the above, during military rule (39 yea rs), the general
public encountered excessive hardship. They were subjected to
arbitrary rules. The people were subjected to harsh measures that
negated their rights as free citizens and denied them the freedom to
make their own decisions. Instead, bribery , subjugation, and force were
used to enforce laws, with decrees serving as the legal framework for
enforcement. The abolition of freedoms of speech, freedom of
association, community procession, and other forms of expression
during these times resulted in mistrust among the governed of the
mechanisms of government and their Governors. Obnoxious decrees
heavily bolstered the media's voice. The general feeling of hostility,
apprehension, and skepticism toward government policies was
palpable (Ugbada, 2019).
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Democracy and Governance in Nigeria, 1960 -2019:
11
As a consequence of the characteristics mentioned earlier of military
autocracy, when democracy was fully established in 1999, despite the
people's excitement, it became extremely difficult for the
constitutionally elected government to enact policy reform s that would
positively impact society and further enshrine true democracy. "Under
the new dispensation, efforts at policy changes often met stiff
opposition, while others no matter how well intentioned were sternly
resisted. The means of communicating pol icy change by the
government were seen to be crude” (Ugbada, 2019:88). The resistance
to reversal to real democratic principles shows that the current crop of
Nigerian politicians is using the military legacy to actualize their sit -
tight syndrome. Any atte mpt to change the status quo would place
them at a disadvantage.
Corruption and institutional rot are two other issues plaguing Nigerian
democracy. The press, political parties, the Judiciary, and the
legislature are all rife with corruption. The extent of corruption that
has infiltrated the Judiciary, the commoner's ostensibly last refuge, is
the most humiliating. Obasanjo referred to the national assembly as
unarmed bandits, claiming that the constituency allowances they do
collect are a massive scam a nd corruption (Obilor et al., 2018).
Corruption is rampant and widespread in Nigeria. It is afflicting and
ravaging the Nigerian State in all fields. Both levels of government
share responsibility. Obasanjo bemoaned the negative impact of
corruption on governance when he said:
No society can grow and develop when corruption is
allowed to progress unfettered as it has grown into
cancer in Nigeria. The government and its agencies
became thoroughly corrupt and reckless. Members of
the public had to bribe their way through ministries
and parastatals to get attention. One government
agency had to bribe another government agency to
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Gabriel Tyoyila Akwen
12
obtain the fund's release of their statutory allocation
(Obasanjo, 1999).
Efforts to tackle the problem of corruption by the Obasanjo
administration met its water low, after the establishment of the
Independent Corrupt Practice and other related offences Commission
(ICPC) to combat corruption.
In July 1999, a bill was introduced in the National Assembly to ban
bribes and prosecute public officials who participate in bribery,
corruption, and other unethical behaviour. The bill was not only
watered down by lawmakers for personal reasons, but it al so took
almost year for both houses to pass it into law, much to the
disappointment of Nigerians (Omotoso, 2013). Aside from that, the
State Governors questioned the law's legality. In reality, the state
governments of Abia and Ondo went to court over it. The case was
finally settled after the Supreme Court issued a ruling affirming the
laws' constitutionality and legality, except two clauses deemed
unconstitutional. In addition to the ICPC the Economic and Financial
Crimes Commission (EFCC) was established by law in June of 2004. The
EFCC is in charge of enforcing both economic and financial crime s rules
(Omotoso, 2013)
Insecurity is a big issue in the country's democracy and political
stability. As previously stated, establishing a democratic system in
1999 enabled different groups to vent their pent -up rage. This is
compounded by political issues, with different groups voicing their
concerns more forcefully than ever before and preparing themselves
for favourable economic and political prospects. Many thin gs that were
unlikely under military rule are now possible thanks to democratic
rule, which emphasizes the rule of law and the promotion of
fundamental human rights. Adebanwi (2004) elaborates this by
observing that:
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Democracy and Governance in Nigeria, 1960 -2019:
13
The constriction of the democratic public sphere for
several years under the military prevented various
interest groups and social and political formations from
advancing their interests and expressing their
grievances through democratic means. When the
democratic rule was achieved, these i nterests and
grievances burst forth with speed; gushed forth like an
overflowing dam whose boundary walls have been
brought down on a still -limited democratic space,
producing the conflagration which we are witnessing
(Adebanwi, 2004: 328)
The activities o f Boko Haram terrorism, armed banditry, kidnapping,
and attacks by terrorist herdsmen on crop farmers corroborate the
position of Adebanwi. The current insecurity experienced in Nigeria is
an indication that the State is finding it challenging to protect l ives and
property.
The release of bottled-up rage by various groups across the country has
exacerbated the insecurity situation well beyond Nigerian security
forces' capabilities and resources. The issue is aggravated and
deepened by the unemployment issue . With over 70% of Nigerian
youths either unemployed or underemployed, the elite can easily hire
the already disgruntled youths to fight their political and economic
battles. Since 1999, the country has been wracked by political,
economic, religious, ethnic, and electoral crises that have threatened its
existence (Omotoso, 2013).
The elite composition is another problem facing democracy in Nigeria.
Despite the Nigerian polity's structural changes, the elite's individual
members and classes are drawn from re lated and exclusive
backgrounds. There is a connection between traditionally ingrained
values and interests that deny opportunities to new clusters. The
greater the dominance of a small number of individuals or groups in
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Gabriel Tyoyila Akwen
14
society, the more likely that other s' rights, as well as the democratic
system's openness, inclusiveness, and the rule of law, may be
jeopardized. The hampering of new entrants into the Nigerian political
elite-hood leads to reproduction instead of political elites' circulation.
Reproduction is the outcome of shared behaviours among individuals
who share similar backgrounds and social networks. “This
reproduction leads to a hybrid form of governance. Here, hybridism
refers to incomplete liberalization and systematically curtailed
inclusion, matched by quite ineffective government” (Ani Kifordu,
2011:16).
Elite composition in Nigeria has bastardized the Federal Character
Principle (FCP), which is expected to solve the problems of equality and
marginalization. The FCP, which was visualized by po litical elites and
ultimately institutionalized as a means for reducing inequality in the
political arena, involves promoting inclusion throughout the Nigerian
socio-cultural spectrum (Mustapha, 2009).As lovely as this principle
sounds, its application is somewhat limited because of the elite struggle
for political authority and eminence. In comparison, many writers and
analysts have seen ethnicity as a significant problem to Nigerian
democracy. There is a need to submerge the analysis of ethnicity under
elite composition. Ordinarily, ethnic groups do not have a problem with
each other in Nigeria. Most of what we have witnessed in Nigeria is
ethnic groups fighting proxy battles of elites. It is usually the political
elite that manipulates ethnic groups to suit their political purpose. They
do this through the divide and rule strategy.
The elites in Nigeria do not relate well with the masses. Nigerian
democracy lacks the forward and backward connexions that are
supposed to exist between the political elite an d the masses. In a
natural democratic setting, the political elite concern for the masses
reduces suspicion and enhances a culture of trust, peace, and harmony
among the various classes that exist in the society. More so, the
Nigerian elite is not ready to consolidate democratic governance. This
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Democracy and Governance in Nigeria, 1960 -2019:
15
is noticed in their lack of overt aspiration to build an all -inclusive stage
for rectitude, accountability, and responsiveness. This can be done by
creating a sufficient force for decency, ostracising all forms of e xecutive
misconduct capable of tarnishing Nigeria's image.
Despite the considerable importance of political parties, over the years,
political parties in Nigeria lack a central pillar of democracy, which is
internal party democracy. This lack of intra -party democracy has
adversely affected the country’s march towards true democracy.
Internal democracy is the foundation of any thriving democracy where
peace, progress, prosperity, and unity are the pillars that hold the
country firmly. In contrast, a lack of internal party democracy is central
to breeding lousy governance and incompetence, endangers peaceful
coexistence and can degenerate into anarchy. (Akwen and Gever,
2013).
Prospects of Democratic Governance in Nigeria
Many countries, including Yugoslavia, Nigeria, and Liberia, experienced
civil wars and ethnic struggles in their history. The repercussions of all
these efforts on Nigeria and other developing states is a lag in
democratic governance that would have spurred overall development.
Despite the neg ative factors shown above, which have affected
Nigeria’s potential for good governance, the various democratization
waves have brought some hope for Nigeria. There are enormous
prospects for the Nigerian State to witness ideal democracy, good
governance, s ecurity, and stability. The hope for Nigeria rests on the
fact that almost everyone in Nigeria desires democracy. Since the
feedback mechanism helps a political system to survive eminent
collapse, the Nigerian political system need to listen to the message
passed from the environment via the feedback loop. The massage is
clear ‘restructuring’. This is the current yearnings and aspirations of
the masses.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Gabriel Tyoyila Akwen
16
As said above, majority of Nigerians desire democracy. The only
problem is the determination to make it work. The preference for
democracy leads to the general agreement that a civilian government is
more desirable in Nigeria than a military junta. In this sense, civil rule
is equated with democratic rule, which has the potentials of
guaranteeing fundamental rights and allowing the masses to choose
their leaders via periodic and competitive elections (Ojo, 2001). To
achieve the dividends mentioned above of democracy, there is a need
for Nigerians, regardless of status, to ponder on the values, visions, and
desires of our founding fathers. This needs to be done with particular
reference in good governance, formulation, and execution of people -
oriented programs and policies through moral leadership.
Another prospect for democracy in Nigeria hinges on the Nigeria n
Judiciary's potentials, which is the last hope of Nigeria. By discharging
justice in a free and fair manner and conferring punishment
appropriately, the Nigerian Judiciary will restore Nigerians hope in
democracy. Without a doubt, the Judiciary has playe d an essential role
in maintaining Nigeria's democracy. Since the beginning of democratic
rule in Nigeria, the Judiciary has been one organ of government that
has performed its function to ensure the survival of democratic
principles (Maduagwu, 2019). The Judiciary has safeguarded Nigeria's
democratic values in various ways: resolving intra -party conflicts,
resolution of resource control clashes, impeachment of the Chief
executive, and Local Government Autonomy. To consolidate on the
gains above, members of the bench who reportedly compromised in
the execution of their duties should be investigated and disciplined by
the National Judicial Council.
Conclusion
In this chapter, some challenges that hampered the consolidation of
democracy in Nigeria are discusse d. Military incursion, which was one
of Nigeria's first democratic experiment challenges, has become a
legacy to the civilian leaders. Even amid this current phrase, the
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Democracy and Governance in Nigeria, 1960 -2019:
17
military approach could be seen in cases like the Odi and Zaki Biam
saga of 20th November 1999 and 22-24 October 2001 respectively, to
the End SARS Lekki plaza face-off of 20th October 2020 . Democracy
based on Good governance (consensus -driven, participatory, law,
accountability, transparency, responsiveness, fairness, and
inclusiveness, the rule of law) is the only panacea for putting militarism
to rest in Nigerian politics. Observance to the rule of law is not the
game plan of the current political elite. Once elected or appointed, the
Nigerian political elite sees themselves above th e law. However, in the
real spirit of democracy, the concept of ‘people’ is central in measuring
the existence, growth, and consolidation of democracy. Aside from this,
the electoral procedure for selecting public office holders is crucial in
assessing dem ocracy. Its importance is such that when the process is
free and fair, it strengthens the effective working of governance. This
means that the smooth conduct of elections in Nigeria would in no
small measure add credibility to Nigeria’s democracy.
To this end, there is the need for a g enuine commitment to electoral
reform in Nigeria that will entrench a credible and lasting democratic
system of governance in Nigeria. By and large, the success of
democracy in Nigeria does not depend on the government's effor ts
alone. The desired reform commitment efforts should come from both
the government and the masses.  This, nevertheless, should be
supported by a stable economic foundation. Citizens will be more
interested in productive practices in a healthy environment and politics
will be regarded as a call to service. The wages assigned to political
positions, the ability of elected officials to allocate huge amount of
resources in contracts, and the possibility that declaration of assets and
properties when they take office and during their service, both at home
and abroad, are some of the causes of desperation, murders, treasury
robbery, and a lack of economic growth. Political offices should be
made less attractive to attract those who are willing to render services
to humanity.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Gabriel Tyoyila Akwen
18
Since states exist to provide public benefits to Citizens living within
their borders, human security and the protection of fundamental rights
and freedoms are the most important. A non -democratic system of
government impedes social -economic prosperity, stability, and
reconciliation. Governments and their agencies must be available,
sensitive, and responsible to constituents. This will go a long way to
reduce instances of ungoverned spaces that serve as breeding grounds
for the insecurity that threatens our democracy.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Democracy and Governance in Nigeria, 1960 -2019:
19
References
Adebanwi, W (2004) “Democracy and Violence in Nigeria: The
Challenge of Communal Clashes” in Adigun Agbaje et al (eds)
Nigeria’s Struggle for Democracy and Good Governance: A
Festschrift for Oyeleye Oyediran, Ibadan: University Press.
Ajayi, A. T. and Ojo, E.O. (2014) Democracy in Nigeria: Practice,
Problems and Prospects, Developing Country Studies , 4(2): 107 -
125
Akwen, G. T and Gever, D. T. (2013) Internal Party Democracy and
Democratic Practice in Nigeria African Journal of Economic and
Society, 12(1).
Ani Kifordu, H. (20 11). Political elite composition and democracy in
Nigeria. The Open Area Studies Journal, 4(1): 16-31.
Anugwom, E. E. (2000). Ethnic conflict and democracy in Nigeria: The
marginalisation question. Journal of social development in Africa ,
15(1): 61-78.
Commission on Global Governance (1995) Our Global Neighborhood
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Crick, B. (1964) In Defence of Politics. Middlesex: Penguin Books.
Dahl, R. A. (1989), Democracy and Its Critics. New York & London: Yale
University Press,
Frank, E. O., & Ukpere, W. I. (2012). The impact of military rule on
democracy in Nigeria. Journal of Social Sciences, 33(3), 285-292.
Gaudin, J. (1999). Modern governance, yesterday and today: Some
clarifications to be gained from French government policies.
International Social Science Journal 50: 47–56.
Herskovits, J. (1979). Democracy in Nigeria. Foreign Affairs, 58(2), 314 -
335.
Heyman, S. J. (2014). The third annual C. Edwin Baker lecture for
liberty, equality, and democracy: The conservative -libertarian
turn in first amendment jurisprudence. West Virginia Law Review,
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Gabriel Tyoyila Akwen
20
117. Retrieved from https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?
abstractid=249 7190 [4 March 2021].
Keping, Y. (2018). Governance and good governance: A new framework
for political analysis. Fudan Journal of the Humanities and Social
Sciences, 11(1): 1-8.
Maduagwu, R. O. (2019). The Role of the Judiciary in the Sustenance of
Democracy in Nigeria. African Journal of Constitutional and
Administrative Law, 1, 100-113
Mustapha R. A. (2009).Seeking representativeness: the federal
character principle in Nigeria and black economic empowerment
in South Africa compared. Paper presented in the Conference
about over -coming Persistent Inequality and Poverty. Oxford:
University of Oxford.
Nzongola-Ntalaja, G. (2003). Governance and Development, A conference
prepared for a group of Haitian politicians visiting Norway for
study at the invitation of the Government of Norway and the
Institute of International Applied Stud ies, Oslo . Retrieved from
http: //www.undp.org/oslocentre/pub.htm [5 March 2021].
Obasanjo, O. (1999) “Presidential Inaugural Speech” on May 29, 1999 in
The Guardian, May 30.
Obilor, O. I., Kenneth, I., Okoroafor, F. O., Chima, E., & Bello, M. B. (2018).
Democracy and National Development: A Focus on Nigeria.
GNOSI: An Interdisciplinary Journal of Human Theory and Praxis ,
2(1):1-8.
Ojo, B. A. Problems and prospects of sustaining democracy in Nigeria.
Nova Publishers, 2001.
Okaneme, G. (2020). The Military and Sustenance of Democracy in
Nigeria: A Philosophical Probe. Coou Journal of Arts and
Humanities (Cjah) Formerly Ansu. Journal of Arts and Humanities
(AJAAH), 5(3): 01-07.
Omotoso, F. (2013 ). Governance crisis and democracy in Nigeria, 1999 -
2012. Mediterranean Journal of Social Sciences, 4(14), 125-134.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Democracy and Governance in Nigeria, 1960 -2019:
21
Sodaro MJ 20 08. Comparative politics -A Global introduction. New
York: McGraw Hill.
Ugbada, A. E. (2019). Globalization, democracy, and the news media in
Nigeria: challenges and prospects. International Journal of
Humanities and Innovation (IJHI), 2(3): 85-89.
Ungar, S. (1989) Africa: The People and Politics of an Emerging
Continent. New York: Praeger Pub.
United Nations. (2007). Public govern ance indicators: A literature
review. New York, NY: Author. Retrieved from
https://publicadministration.un.org/publications/content/PDFs
/ELibrary%20Archives/2007%20Public%20Governance%20Ind
icators_a%20Literature%20Review.pdf [5 March 2021].
Yagboyaju, D. A and Akinola A. O. (2019) Nigerian State and the Crisis
of Governance: A Critical Exposition, SAGE Open, 9(3): 1–10.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Hannatu K Ali
22
2
National Youth Service Corps:
Civic and Electoral Awareness in Nigeria, 1973- 2019
Hannatu K Ali
Introduction
Nigeria is a multinational state inhabited by more than 250 ethnic
groups and speaking about 500 distinct languages, all identifying with a
wide variety of cultures. Shortly after the independence of Nigeria in
1960, series of political crises generated fi ghting between and among
Local ethnic groups. This political turbulence continued until 1966
when the military took over power through a bloody coup that swept
away many of the political leaders of that period, and this triggered
more problems that led to the Nigerian civil war of 1967 to 1970.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps:
23
Nevertheless, from 1966 to 1999 , Nigeria under -went multiple brutal
military regimes and the nation returned to democracy in May 1999
with the inauguration of an elected president. Moreover, following the
Nigerian civil war of 1960 to 1970, the NYSC was established, precisely
in 1973, t o foster national unity and cohesion as well as to help
promote development, reconciliation and tolerance throughout
Nigeria.
1
Since its inception, the scheme has mobilized and prepared Nigerian
youths who have willingly offered their best in the service o f the nation
and as a result, this had strengthened national unity, integration and
inter-ethnic understanding as well as civic awareness among the
people of Nigeria. More so, the scheme has inculcated in Nigerian
youths, the spirit of selfless service to the nation and emphasize s the
spirit of oneness and brotherhood of all Nigerians irrespective of
cultural background. Notwithstanding, political crisis and religious
turbulence affecting the nation, t he scheme has faced a lot of insecurity
and other related challenges over the last two decades which began
when four Corps members were killed in the Jos region of Nigeria in
November 2008.
2
This paper therefore examines the origin of NYSC, the concept of civic
awareness, as well as the role of NYSC in the promotion of civic
awareness and it's relevance to national development.
1. Ebenezer Obadare, “Statism, Youth and the Civic Imagination: A Critical Study of the
National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Programme in Nigeria”, Center for Social
Development: Washington, p. 14.
2. Innovations in Civic Participation, “Country Profile: National Youth Service Country
Profile”, available on http://www.icicp.org/resource -library/icp-publications/global-youth-
service-database/africa-2/west-sub-saharan-africa/nigeria/, assessed on 2 March, 2021.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Hannatu K Ali
24
The Concept of Civic Awareness
The word “civic” is used to describe the people who live in a town or
city. A similar concept is “citizen”. In the Nigeria n context a citizen is
every person born in Nigeria on or before the date of independence
either of whose parents or any of his grandparents belonged to a
community indigenous to Nigeria or by naturalization.
3
Education on the other hand has to do with the gradual process of
training, building, developing, sustaining knowledge, skill and character
among students. This has to do with how knowledge or experience is
been transmitted and it could take place in schools, universities,
technical colleges, workshops, colleges of advance d education etc. On
this note, we can conclude that, it is very important for a citizen to have
the knowledge of how to operate in his or her social environment and
to endeavour to sustain a conducive and harmonious relationship with
people in the environment.
4
It is therefore germane to state that, civic awareness involves creating
the consciousness among the citizens on the need to make a difference
in the civic life of one’s community. I n other words, it refers to the
ability to promote the quality of life in a community, through both
political and non -political processes. Civic awareness includes both
paid and unpaid forms of political activism, environmentalism,
community and national service. Volunteering, national service, and
service-learning are all forms of civic engagement.
5
These activities
enrich the lives of youths and are socially beneficial to the community,
through the following:
3. Cyprian C. Alozie, “The Relevance of Civic Education in the Realization of National
Objectives in Nigeria” Volume 6, Issue 5, May 2019, p. 18.
4. Ibid.
5. Youth.Gov, Civic Engagement, available at https://youth.gov/youth-topics/civic-
engagement-and-volunteering, assessed on 3 March, 2021.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps:
25
i. It helps to improve the knowledge of the inter -relationship
between the people, government and the society in general.
ii. It enables citizens to know the structure of government, its
functions and the responsibilities of gov ernment to the people
and that of the people to the government.
iii. It serves as an avenue through which citizens are liberated
from ignorance and equip ped with the needed administrative
skills which are necessary to facilitate and maintain national
consciousness.
iv. It develops in the citizens, good values , patriotism and
provokes in them the resolve to become good citizens.
v. It helps in creating the needed knowledge and understanding
over the importance of political equality, equity and justice
among the citizens.
vi. It creates awareness and understanding of the duties and
obligations the citizens owe to the government and the nation.
6
Civic awareness aimed at sensitizing the people in order to create a
patriotic consciousness among the citizens and the need to support
government programmes and policies. More so, it enhances the
grooming of effective and proactive leaders and has become an
effective instrument for the training of good and patriotic future
leaders in various aspects of human endeavour.
However, inadequate civic awareness has been noted to have had a
destabilizing effect on the society due to the absence of shared values
such as political tolerance, respect for the rule of law and trust in
democratic institutions.
7
As a result of this gap violent crises are
triggered which often leads to destruction of lives and properties in the
society. This challenge has hampered political development, economic
6. Cyprian C. Alozie, “The Relevance of Civic Education..
7. Ibid.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Hannatu K Ali
26
viability and socio -cultural progression of the country .
8
In order to
restore political stability and order in Nigeria, it is pertinent to educate
Nigerians to consider the country first over and above any other
consideration. This can be done through citizenship education and
awareness creation among the citizens.
National Youth Service Corps and Civic Awareness in Nigeria: A
Panacea for National Development
In the historical context of national development in Nigeria, the role of
the youth cannot be over emphasized. The wheel of development of any
society, nation or country is propelled by the productive and creative
attributes of the youth population. The youth in any society are the
engine of growth and development, because, they provide the labour
force for production of goods and services.
The NYSC was established in 1973 as a post -civil-war strategy in
Nigeria, with a view to promote the development of common ties
among the youths of Nigeria and the promotion of national unity. It is
important to note that the scheme is a strategy to ensure
reconstruction, rehabilitation, and reconciliation of Nigeria’s post -war
economy and since its establishment, it has remained relevant and an
apex of youth organization in Nigeria’s democratic era . It enforces the
policies of national development through the mobilization, deployment,
and development of yo uth capabilities. As one of the longest standing
national youth programmes in sub -Saharan Africa, the relevance of the
NYSC scheme cannot be underrated as it stands on a critical platform
that links educated Nigerian youths to places of employment, and
8. Usman Ugboka Koku, “Citizenship Education as a Panacea for Political Stability in
Nigeria” African Research Review: An International Multi -Disciplinary Journal, Ethiopia, Vol.
11 (3) No. 47, July 2017, p. 98.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps:
27
where their skills can be put in to practice and utiliz ed for national
development.
9
In Nigeria, the scheme has contributed meaningfully to every aspect of
the economic, social and cultural life. Unrelentingly, it has offered many
graduates an entry point into the labour market. Many dedicated Corps
members have been offered employment in their places of primary
assignment. These are graduates who would ordinarily have roamed
the streets unemployed and ignorant of the opportunities that exist in
other parts of the country. In addition, there are communities that have
benefited from the scheme through services rendered by Corps
members, some of which may not have been provided by government
or private intervention. The same is the case in urban centres where
financial institutions, industries and the petroleum sector also tap from
their expertise.
10
Undoubtedly, the NYSC can be considered as a pathway and platform
that improves youth transition into productive adulthood and effective
citizenship. The result and ben efits acquired by the youths of Nigeria
through their participation in the NYSC programme includes
psychosocial and character development; interethnic tolerance through
enhanced cognitive and perceptual shifts that seeks to eliminate
discriminatory practices and manage con flicts; creation of platforms
9. Dereck Osadere Arubayi, “Youth in Development: Understanding the Contributions of the
National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) to Nigeria’s National Development”, A thesis submitted
to the University of Manchester on Degree of Doctor of Philosophy in Development Policy
and Management, in the Faculty of Humanities, 2015, p. 24.
10. Patrick Udende and Aishat A. Salau, “National Youth Service Corps Scheme and the
Quest for National Unity and Development: A Public Relations Perspective” available at
https://www.researchgate.net/publication/2939762 88_National_Youth_Service_Corps_Sch
eme_and_the_Quest_for_National_Unity_and_Development_A_Public_Relations_Perspecti
ve, assessed on 6 March, 2021.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Hannatu K Ali
28
for youths to gain practical experience, reflexive learning and exit
opportunities; competence, skills (both soft and technical), and social
capital development; improved levels of patriotism and citizenship
through awareness, loyalty, and sense of belonging; entrepreneurship
development through orientation programmes; as well as, deployment
and usage of youth capabilities solely for national interest.
11
The
mobilization of eligible youth participants in the NYSC scheme is
carried out by the National Directorate of the Scheme while the State
Governing Boards under the authority of State Governors are
responsible for deploying mobilized Corps members to places of critical
national and community development needs. At the grassroots level,
the operation of the scheme is supervised by the State Zonal Officers
and the Local Government Inspectors. On the average, the NYSC
programme mobilizes an average of 250 -350,000 graduates for
national service annually.
The NYSC deployment policy has exposed youth Corps members to
many similarities and diversities of cultures and traditions in other
parts of the country . This has continuously eliminate all retrogressive
elements that encourages the entrenchment of ethno-religious
prejudices and stereo types and as a result help Corps members to be
positive change agents . To prepare and equip Corps members for civic
responsibilities, youth Corps members receive lectures from facilitators
from different organizations including ; UNICEF, World Bank , the Red
Cross, Economic and Financial Crimes Commission – EFCC) and other
multinationals.
12
For instance, Dereck Osadere quoted in his work that:
MDGs advocacy programme has trained and deployed
about 104,182 Corps members as DKF’s. In 2013 alone,
the NYSC (MDG) tr ained and deployed 13, 551 Corps
members. While the WAP programme has trained
11. Dereck Osadere Arubayi, “Youth in Development: Understanding…
12. Ibid.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps:
29
3,869 Corps members . The programme has also,
empowered 3060 as War Against Poverty (WAP) Corps
entrepreneurs. Further more, the advocacy programm e
mobilizedCorps MDGs advocates in carrying out “My
World” survey report under the auspices of the United
Nations Millennium Development campaign Office to
highlight key areas that would be addressed in the
post-2015 sustainable development goals agenda.
13
More specifically, the NYSC is critical in the health and education sectors.
The NYSC Health Initiative for Rural Dwellershas been of immense benefit
to thousands of Nigerians, many of whom would not have had access to
proper health care without this program. Likewise, Corps members have
helped in bridging teaching gaps in rural schools. More to t his is the
outstanding role playedby NYSC in ensuring that the Independent National
Electoral Commission (INEC) meets its staffing needs in the electoral
process of the nation.Before its collaboration with NYSC, INEC struggled to
hire ad hoc staff becausemany volunteers had unverifiable addresses and
could not be held accountable when the need arises. Corps members are
ideal volunteers because they are registered with the government and
are prohibited from engaging in partisan politics during the service year.
14
The involvement of Corps members in elections commenced in 2008 as
polling clerks and the involvement of Corps members in the
governorship re -run in Kogi State in the same year was transformed
into interagency collaboration between the INEC and the NYSC.
Consequently, it led to the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding
(MoU) by Nov, 2011. This strengthened the collaboration, thus by2015
13. Ibid., p. 25.
14. EbehiIyoha, “Why Nigeria Needs NYSC”, available at
https://www.stearsng.com/article/why -nigeria-needs-nysc,2018, assessed on 7 March,
2021.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Hannatu K Ali
30
Corps members participated in the electoral process nationwide. With
the successful training on the electoral procedure, Corps m embers
sensitized the electorate consequently the conduct of the election was
fair and relatively peaceful.
15
It is pertinent to note that, the Community Development Service (CDS)
programme of the NYSC scheme (CDS) programme is aimed at
harnessing the skills, creativity and innovativeness of Corps members
in every part of Nigeria . As one of the cardinal programmes of the NYSC
scheme, the CDS programme enables Corps members to identify the
needs of their host communities, and undertake at least one community
development (CD) project that will be beneficial to their host
community. For this purpose, there are three types of CDS programme,
namely: Year Round CDS; Individual CDS and; Traditional CDS.
16
Through these types of CDS programmes, Corps members are directly
involved in community development activities in one form or another,
including the construction of small bridges, primary health care
centres, classroom blocks, market stalls, culverts etc. As a result of
these CDS activities manyCorps members have impacted lives in their
host communities. For instance, a Corps member in 2012 built a mini
paint factory in Tungan -Goro, Minna, under Bosso Local Government
Area in Niger State, where he trained other youths of the community on
how to make paints for painting houses. This kind of action and many
more has improved lives in communities where Corps members were
deployed for national service . Some of these collaborative CDS were
created and supervised by the NYSC in coll aboration with government
organizations like Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) now SDGs,
Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), National Agency for Foods and
15. Aron E. Umoru,”The Worth of National Youth Service Corps Scheme…, p. 35.
16. Dereck Osadere Arubayi, “Youth in Development: Understanding…, p. 25.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps:
31
Drugs Administrati on and Control (NAFDAC), Economic and Financial
Crimes and Commission (EFCC), etc.
17
In addition , CDS programmes have also helped Corps members in
carrying out projects like sensitization on adolescent reproductive
health and HIV/AIDS prevention, adult literacy campaign, extra -mural
classes for students, road safety campaign etc.
18
Another crucial area in which the NYSC scheme has contributed
immensely to the development of Nigerian society is the Skills
Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) programme.
The SAED programme was launched by the NYSC in 2012, with the
mission o f facilitating access to acquire d skills and resources necessary
for successful entrepreneurship. The programme is targeted at young
Corps members and was designed to be implemented during the
required camping exercises (in –camp) and throughout the service yea r
(post-camp). The Corps members are encouraged to learn and become
value creators, and leverage on career and business start -up
opportunities. The purpose of the programme is to supports the federal
government’s objective that seeks to improve economic transformation
through promotion of entrepreneurship and self -reliance, particularly
among youth. It offers opportunity and encouragement to Corps
members to start business in any field of their choice. SAED program
places emphasis on twelve vocational skill sectors, including the agri -
food sector, culture and tourism, agro allied, construction, information
and communication technology, education etc.
19
In 2014, the SAED
17. Oral Interview with Israel Ogbonnaya, 2012 Batch ‘C’ Corp Member, Served Scientific
Equipment and Development Institute, Minna, Niger State, Interviewed on 15 Feb., 2021.
18. Ibid., p.26
.
19. Youth Policy Tool Box, “National Youth Service Corp–Skills Acquisition &
Entrepreneurship Development (NYSC-SAED) –Nigeria”, available at,
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Hannatu K Ali
32
scheme trained a total of about 15 9,732 Corps members, made up of
69,904 females and 89, 828 males. Over 500, 000 Corps members have
benefited from the NYSC -SAED program since its inception. Out of the
total number of trained entrepreneurs, 1,600 had become full -time
entrepreneurs and at t he same time NYSC encourages Corps members
to develop business proposals for funding. This has made so many of
these Corps members to become employer of labour in their societies
and the country at large.
20
Finally, due to the prevailing challenges of security threat in many parts
of the country. In order to ameliorate this challenge , the NYSC has
devised a number of security measures such as sensitization of the
Youth Corps Members on how to be security conscious while
discharging their duties in their resp ective host Communities. Other
measures include the production and distribution of security tip
booklets and organiz ation and delivery of security lectures by security
experts in all States of the federation and Federal Capital Territory,,
Abuja. This is in addition to the operation of Distress Call Center where
the Scheme receives and mobilizes prompt response to Corps members
in distress situation anywhere in the Country..
21
Conclusion
Civic awareness is an important role in building unity and national
development in any giving society. It is a fact that since independence ,
the nation has faced a lot of conflicts in various aspects which affect s
the political stability of the country. This include inter and intra ethnic
rivalry and struggle for political power, inter and intra -religious crises,
https://yptoolbox.unescapsdd.org/portfolio/national-youth-service -corp-skills-acquisition-
entrepreneurship-development-nysc-saed-nigeria/, 2017, assessed on 7 March, 2021.
20. Ibid.
21. Osun Kopa- Batch ‘C’ 2019, “21st Century Pandemic”, NYSC Engagement and
Opportunities, p. 11
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps:
33
structural violence etc. The level of insecurity is high in Nigeria today,
due to the activities of Boko Haram sect in the North East of Nigeria,
kidnapping, the Niger Delta militants in the South -South region where
oil is produced, the crises of legitimacy of government at the Federal,
State, and local government, and also the widespread poverty and
unemployment, despite the abundant human and natural resources in
the country.
However, in the midst of this crisis, the NYSC was establish ed to
essentially promote national unity and purposeful development of
Nigeria.Since inception the Scheme has contributed gre atly to
development of Nigeria by engaging in different form of civic
awareness programmes the NYSC CDS, SAED, and various activities of
Corps members in their Places of Primary Assignment.
It is however important to note that, Nigeria is also plagued with many
problems including poverty, mass illiteracy, a shortage of highly skilled
labour, inadequate infrastructure,  housing, water and sewage disposal
facilities as well as roads, healthcare, etc. The NYSC still remain s one of
the key strategic programme s that government can use to carry out
civic responsibilities in Nigeria, both in rural and urban settings. It is
therefore important that the administration of the NYSC scheme should
re-design and re-organise the scheme in a way that it will liberate many
Nigerian youths from the problem of illiterac y. It is very clear that the
political violence and instability in Nigeria is the handiwork of the
youths who are used by the politicians for their selfish interests and are
dumped after they have achieved their aims. Even the inter -and intra -
ethnic and religious conflicts are caused by these unemployed youths.
So, whe n citizenship education is well understood by the youths as a
way of life, violence would give way to political stability.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Hannatu K Ali
34
Bibliography
Interview
Israel Ogbonnaya, 2012 Batch ‘C’ Corp Member, Served Scientific
Equipment and Development Institute, Minna, Niger State,
Interviewed on 15 Feb., 2021.
Musiliu A. with a Staff of NYSC, Afaka, Kaduna, Kaduna State, 8th March,
2021.
Aron E. Umoru,” The Worth of National Youth Service Corps Scheme”,
Henecres Publishing Company, Lagos, 2017
Ebenezer Obadare, “Statism, Youth and the Civic Imagination: A Critical
Study of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Programme
in Nigeria”, Center for Social Development: Washington
NYSC Yearbook, 45th Anniversary Commemorative Edition, 2018
Journals
ChukwuemekaOkafor and KelechiAni, “ The National Youth Service
Corps Programme and Growing Security Threat in Nigeria”,
Africa’s Public Service Delivery and Performance Review 2(2),
2014, p. 149.
Cyprian C. Alozie, “The Relevance of Civic Education in the Realiz ation
of National Objectives in Nigeria” Volume 6, Issue 5, May 2019,
p. 18.
Eugene Odo and OkechukwuEme, “Role of the Youths in National
Development”, Singaporean Journal of Business, Economics and
Management Studies, Vol. 3, No. 2, 2014.p. 164.
Maduawuchi Obialo, “History of the NYSC in Nigeria: What NYSC is all
about”, Nigerian Guide, December 13, 2019.
Mtorma Bari T. Deebom, and Ilomabo T. Daerego, “The Influence of
National Youth Se rvice Corps Entrepreneurship Skill
Acquisition Programmes on Youth empowerment in Rivers
State”, International Journal of Humanities, Social Sciences and
Education, Volume 7, Issue 6, June 2020, p. 145.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps:
35
Seyedali Ahrari, etal., “ Understanding Meaning and Characteristics of
Civic Development in Higher Education” Asian Social Science
10(16), July 2014, p. 50.
Usman UgbokaKoku, “Citizenship Education as a Panacea for Political
Stability in Nigeria” African Research Review: An International
Multi-Disciplinary Journal , Ethiopia, Vol. 11 (3) No. 47, July
2017, p. 98.
Electronic Materials
Adedeji Ademola, “Security Challenges in Nigeria: The Imperativeness
of Good Governance and the Role of Civil Society”, available on
https://www.grin.com/document/497170, assessed on 26 June,
2020.
Agency Report, “Premium Times”, available at
https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/top-news/346795-4-7-
million-have-participated-in-nysc-since-inception-dg.htmlAugust
15, 2019, assessed on 5 March, 2021.
EbehiIyoha, “Why Nigeria Needs NYSC”, available at
https://www.stearsng.com/article/why-nigeria-needs-
nysc,2018, assessed on 7 March, 2021.
Innovations in Civic Participation, “Country Profile: National Youth
Service Country Profile”, available on
http://www.icicp.org/resource-library/icp-publications/global-
youth-service-database/africa-2/west-sub-saharan-
africa/nigeria/, assessed on 2 March, 2021.
Patrick Udende and Aishat A. Salau, “National Youth Service Corps
Scheme and the Quest for National Unity and Development: A
Public Relations Perspective” available at
https://www.researchgate.net/publication/293976288_National
_Youth_Service_Corps_Scheme_and_the_Quest_for_National_Unity
_and_Development_A_Public_Relations_Perspective, assessed on
6 March, 2021.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Hannatu K Ali
36
Youth.Gov, Civic Engagement, available at https://youth.gov/youth-
topics/civic-engagement-and-volunteering, assessed on 3
March, 2021.
Youth Policy Tool Box, “National Youth Service Corp–Skills Acquisition
& Entrepreneurship Development (NYSC-SAED) –Nigeria”,
available at, https://yptoolbox.unescapsdd.org/portfolio/
national-youth-service-corp-skills-acquisition-
entrepreneurship-development-nysc-saed-nigeria/,2017,
assessed on 7 March, 2021.
Dissertation
Dereck Osadere Arubayi, “Youth in Development: Understanding the
Contributions of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) to
Nigeria’s National Development”, A thesis submitted to the
University of Manchester on Degree of Doctor of Philosophy in
Development Policy and Ma nagement, in the Faculty of
Humanities, 2015, p. 24.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Corps Members and Voters ’ Education in Nigeria
37
3
Corps Members and Voters’ Education in Nigeria
Barnabas M. Atime
Introduction
The importance of voters’ education for the health and development of
democracy vis-à-vis its accompanying electoral process cannot be over-
emphasized. Voters’ education like the knowledge of the place of the
youths in leadership is in part, very crucial in understanding the
control of power and the extent to which individual members of a
society participate and involve in politics.
1
As a matter of fact, the
success of any electoral process in a polity depends largely on the level
1
B. Atime “The Place of the Youths in Nigeria’s Democratic Leadership, 1999 -
2019” in Journal of History and Social Science , Vol.11, No.1, 2020, p.68.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Barnabas M. Atime
38
of enlightenment of its electorates. A well informed electorate is likely
to contribute to, and engender a hitch -free electoral process. Therefore,
adequate information on electoral proc esses is an important way to
secure citizen’s political inclusion and contribution to the democratic
process. Voter education is designed to ensure that voters are ready,
willing, and able to participate in electoral process in any nation.
2
In Nigeria like many African emerging democracies, elections are
fraught with and marred by inherent inconsistencies and
contradictions synonymous with societies where the electorates are
poorly informed. This is because since the country’s return to
democracy in 1999, there has not been adequate emphasis on voter
education targeted at the Nigerian electorates by the country’s election
management body. This claim is justified in the twin problems of
rejected ba llots and declining turnout of electorates during elections as
observed by Ibeanu.
3
Thus, since the signing of Memorandum of
Understanding (MoU) between INEC and NYSC to utilize the services of
Corps members in all election duties, the pertinent question i s that; to
what extent wouldCorps members be involved in voter education of the
Nigerian electorates ? This forms the basis for this research. The thrust
of this paper is therefore to investigate the extent of the involvement
ofCorps members in the implementation of voter education in Nigeria
and its implication for hitch -free political parti cipation. In order to
achieve this , the paper is structured into five sections. Section one is
the introduction which provides background information on the
subject unde r analysis, while section two underpins conceptual and
theoretical issues. Section three identifies and interrogates the need for
2
S.O. Uhunmwuangho and S. Aibieyi “Sensitization of Secondary School Students
towards Sustainable Electoral Process in Nigeria: Nigeria Independent Electoral
Commission as a Focus” in African Research Review: An International
Multidisciplinary Journal , Vol. 6 (3), 2012, p.241.
3
O. Ibeanu “Introduction” in O. Ibeanu and N. Orji (eds.) Approaches to Civic and
Voter Education: Nigeria’s Experience in Comparative Perspective (Abuja: INEC),
2014, p.9.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Corps Members and Voters ’ Education in Nigeria
39
voter education in Nigeria. Section four explores the role of Corps
members in voter education in Nigeria, while section five summarizes
and concludes on the findings of study.
Conceptual Framework
The concept used in this analysis that deserves clarification for better
understanding of the issue under scrutiny is the concept of voters’
education. The concept, like other political and democratic concepts
has been variously explained by scholars. While some scholars
associate voters’ education with the enlightenment of electorates on
the rudiments of electoral process, others likened it to a process of
providing citizens wi th basic infor mation about participation in
elections thus making the debate inconclusive. For us in this study,
instead of delving into such debate s on the concept, it is more
rewarding to provide a definitional framework that will serve as a peg
for us t o hang our wares of analysis. This study therefore adopts the
concept of voters’ education by Okon (2013) and Nnedinso (2014) to
serve as a guide in this analysis.  Okon
4
describes voters’ education as
the dissemination of information, materials and progra mmes designed
to inform electorates about the specific mechanics of the voting process
for a particular election. It is seen by Nnediso
5
as the combination of
activities to help voters make rational choices about candidates and
ballot measures and then car ry out those choices accurately, effectively
and orderly when voting. It involves informing voters about the
candidates, what a ballot looks like, how to use voting machines, where
polling booths are located, how to register and how to cast their votes
4
G.B. Okon “Voter Education by the Nigerian Broadcast Med ia: A Normative
Appraisal of three Radio Stations in Port Harcourt Metropolis” in Journal of Media
Studies , 28(1), 2013, p. 57.
5
H. Nnedinso “Need for Voter Education for Political Stability in Nigeria” in
Knowledge Review, 30 (1), 2014, p.29.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Barnabas M. Atime
40
properly. Arising from the above conceptual explanation, it is apposite
to stress that voters’ education is essential in ensuring that voters are
well-informed and can effectively exercise their voting rights and
express their political will on Election Day.
6
Since the emergence of analysis on voters’ education, a lot of
theoretical constructs have emerged. However, for the purpose of this
study, the cognitive mobilization theory of political literacy and
participation is adopted to serve as a model for analys is. Proponents of
the cognitive mobilization theory such as Dalton argue that the process
through which people receive their cognitive cues to make decisions on
voting, participation and other forms of political activities is based on
political education a nd engagement which act upon the individual to
mobilize his mental capabilities in dealing with politics. Thus, political
education according to cognitive mobilization theorists helps people
overcome the bureaucratic obstacle involved in voting process.
7
Three
basic assumptions of cognitive mobilization theory are employed in
this study. First is that education is a key indicator and determinant in
measuring political knowledge and participation. Secondly, access to
political education increases engagement in politics by developing the
citizens’ cognitive skill which in turn enables them to process complex
information about political system, and to enhance feeling of civic duty.
Lastly, cognitively mobilized publics are more issue oriented in their
participation in such activities as voting and less inclined to be led by
the elite.
8
Taking from the standpoint of our analysis which is part of
political education, the theory is of help not just in analyzing voters’
education but also the importance and role of stakeholders in providing
6
T.I. Of onmbuk “Voter Education through Social Media: An Analytical Study of
Independent Electoral Commission’s Twitter and Facebook Platforms” in
International Journal of Humanities and Social Science , Vol.7, Issue 3, 2020, p.28.
7
O.R. Amechi et al “Political e ducation in Nigeria: the Mobilization Theory Thesis
Perspective” in Arts and Humanities Open Access Journal , 2(5), 2018, p.248.
8
R.J Dalton “Cognitive Mobilisation and Partisan Dealignment in Advanced
Industrial Democracy” in Journal of Politics , 46(1), 1984, p.274
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Corps Members and Voters ’ Education in Nigeria
41
voter education to the electorates. To appreciate the connection
between voting and election, eligible voters must be enlightened and
sensitized about their rights and obligations, the modus operandi of the
electoral process, the informed and non -prejudicial choices they make
during election, amongst others. By educating voters, they will
meaningfully participate in elections; and turnout will also increase,
thereby providing a frame work for protecting, sustaining and
institutionalizing a culture of credible elections and popular
participation in governance.
9
The Need for Voters’ Education in Nigeria
The democratic experience in Nigeria cannot be adjudged as positive
since all factors that ought to be available such as voters’ educ ation are
insignificant for sustainable political development. Unarguably, since
the return of the country to democracy in 1999, much emphasis has not
been placed on the need to educate the voters on election matters.
10
However, voters’ education can make a major contribution to electoral
integrity, through the dissemination of balanced and objective
information on what citizens need to know to exercise their franchise.
11
Voters’ education is very essential in any democratic system as the
proper orientation of the electorate on the essence of casting vote s and
involvement in a democratic system, will not only bring about the high
level of motivation but higher participation level. As earlier stated,
voters’ education would ensure that voters are ready, willin g, and able
to participate fully in the elect oral process which brings succor to the
9
Center for Democracy and Development, “Who is the King Maker in Nigeria: The
Voter or the Godfather?” Being a Briefing Note on Voter Education and the 2015
Elections in Nigeria, 2014, pp.1 – 2
10
S.O. Oduola “Voters’ Education and Credible El ection in Nigeria: Issues and
Challenges of 2019 General Elections” in International Journal of Politics and Good
Governance , Vol.XI, No.11, 2020, p.7.
11
O. Osumah “Paradigm Shift: Youth Engagement in the Conduct of the 2015
Elections in Nigeria” in Journal of African Elections, Vol.1, No.1, 2016, p.6.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Barnabas M. Atime
42
health of democracy. This explains why Gallego posits that well -
educated citizens vote more frequently than the poorly educated.
12
One of the needs for voters’ education in Nigeria is the problems of
rejected ballots and declining turnout at elections which are widely
attributed both directly and indirectly to inadequate civic and voter
education. Other issues that have been linked to voter and civic
education in Nigeria inc lude poor turnout and participation in voter
registration, lack of understanding of voting procedures, underage
voting and election violence. In fact, it has been noted that the violence
that Nigeria experienced during General elections are partly due to
negative mobilization by political leaders and by implication
inadequate voter education.
13
As a matter of fact, political knowledge
promotes supports for democratic values. For example, the more
knowledge citizens have of political principles and institutions, the
more likely they are to support core democratic principles, beginning
with the en trenchment of the culture of tolerance. In every election,
voter and civic education are necessary to ensure that all constituents,
men and women alike, understand their rights, their political system,
the contests they are being asked to decide, and how and where to vote.
For an election to be successful and democratic, voters must
understand their rights and responsibilities, and must be sufficiently
knowledgeable and well informed to cast ballots that are legally valid
and to participate meaningfully in the voting process. However, INEC,
which is principally saddled with the responsibility of conducting voter
education, has, in several forums, complained about the inadequate
finance required to perform its role well. The Commission has often
stated that f unds allocated to voter education are not enough.
Moreover, going by the present responsibilities of the commission,
12
A. Gallego “Understanding Unequal Turnout: Education and Voting in
Comparative Perspective” in Electoral Studies, 29, 2010, p.239.
13
O. Ibeanu “Introduction” in O. Ibeanu and N. Orji (eds.) Approaches to Civic and
Voter Education: Nigeria’s Experience in Comparative Perspective …2014, p.9.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Corps Members and Voters ’ Education in Nigeria
43
there are doubts whether it has the capacity to discharge it's mandate,
especially in terms of personnel.
14
Arising from the need for voters’
education in Nigeria vis -à-vis the challenges faced by INEC in carrying
out this function, the prospects of utilizing the services ofCorps
members in this direction appears promising.
Corps Members and Voters’ Education in Nigeria
Consequent upon the signing of MoU between INEC and NYSC for Corps
members to help on election duties, it is expected that the NYSC
Scheme would assist the election management body in the area of
voters’ education. In this section therefore, efforts is made at assessing
the role of Corps members in voters’ education in Nigeria. In order to
properly situate the role of Corps members in election duties, it is
appropriate to briefly look at the terms of the INEC -NYSC partnership.
A cursory look at the MoU between INEC and NYSC shows that the
election management body did not include the issue of voters’
education as part of the duties to be carried out by NYSC Corps
members. The MoU stated in part that, the commission shall train
Corps members so engaged for its electoral duties befor e deployment;
NYSC shall provide, in so far as it is capable, the number of Corps
members required by the commission for electoral duties in each of the
36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory.
15
These
duties as provided in the MoU, it must be stated, did not include voters’
education. As such, Corps members ' involvement in voters’ education
in the country is a later development and as a result, has not yielded
the much needed results.
14
Center for Democracy and Development, “Who is the King Maker in Nigeria: The
Voter or the Godfather?”…2014, p.7.
15
See for details Memorandum of Understanding between Independent National
Electoral Commission and National Youth Service Corps of 24
th
September, 2013,
pp.3 – 4.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Barnabas M. Atime
44
After signing of the MoU in 2013, the Westminste r Foundation for
Democracy (WFD), in partnership with the National Youth Service
Corps (NYSC) and Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC)
established a Voter Education Community Development Service (CDS)
Group in Osun, Imo and FCT.
16
The main objective of the CDS group was
to enable Corps members use targeted, peer -to-peer voter and civic
education to encourage women and youth and Persons with Disabilities
(PWDs) to participate in the electoral process in a meaningful way. In
light of the partnershi p with the NYSC, INEC and WFD , assigned
officials do sensitize Corps members at the orientation camps on
election duties and voters’ education. This activity was conducted on
June 6, 2018 in FCT, September 10, 2019 in Imo State, and November 5,
2018 in Osu n State. The Corps members were further enlightened on
INEC activities, the role of Corps members during the election and what
will be expected of them as voter educators. A call for volunteers was
announced to recruit Corps members into the voter educatio n group as
INEC Ambassadors.
17
It is equally important to note that since the establishment of this CDS
Group in the aforementioned states and the Federal Capital Territory,
the involvement of Corps member s in voters’ education in Nigeria
generally has not passed its best. Be that as it may, the enthusiasm and
participation of Corps members in voters’ education is felt in Imo, Osun
and FCT.
18
Following the establishment of the Voter Education
Community Development Service (CDS) Group in these three pilot
states, Corps members under the supervision of the INEC Voter
Education Desk Officers (VEDOs) and NYSC Local Government
Inspectors (LGIs), conducted voter education and sensitization in all
16
http://democracy -support.eu/nigeria/posts/sensitization -and -recruitment -of-
corp-members -at-orientation -camp-june -september -and-november -2018
17
http://democracy -support.eu/nigeria/posts/sensitization -and -recruitment -of-
corp-members...2018
18
https://dailytrust.com/foundation -organises -workshop -on-voters-education
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Corps Members and Voters ’ Education in Nigeria
45
the local governments of Osun State. Using the peer -to-peer
engagement strategy, Corps members reached out to fellow youths
with relevant and targeted messages designed to correct negative
perceptions and attitudes of the target group towards elections. This
was with the objective of increasing youth and women participation in
the 2019 General elections.
19
Unfortunately, not many Nigerian citizens
have good knowledge of a credible electioneering process.
Summary and Conclusion
This study examines the role of Corps members in voters’ education in
Nigeria in ensuring the success of elections. It is observed that while
the involvement of Corps members in election duties and later voters’
education in few places in the nation has bo osted the credibility of
elections in Nigeria, the collaboration is still far from being perfect. It is
the opinion of this paper that voters’ education in Nigeria should
include basic knowledge such as how winners emerge and declaration
of results. This i s possible because most often voters jubilates the
perceived victory of their preferred candidates in an election based on
results of a few polling units or local governments with the highest
numbers of registered voters. This trend often triggers post -election
violence in the country. However, it should be noted that the popularity
of candidates does not translate into votes. Therefore, constitutional
provisions on how winners emerge and the procedure for the
declaration of results are adequately captured in voter education
programmes. This will help in stemming the tide of post -election
violence which often occurs as a result of perceived manipulation of
election figures by the ill-informed electorates and supporters.
In view of the importance of voters’ education as mentioned in the
earlier part of this paper, suffice it to say that Corps members are
19
WFD “Assessment of Voter Education in Osun State, Nigeria” retrieved online
from https://www.wfd.org/2020/01/06/assessment -of-voter-education -in-osun -
state-nigeria
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Barnabas M. Atime
46
strategically positioned to conduct voters’ education in Nigeria. As a
matter of fact, the deployment of Corps members to all the nooks and
crannies of the c ountry makes the youth Corps members particularly
suitable for this exercise. The geographical spread in the posting policy
of the Scheme ensures that Corps members are evenly deployed and
posted across the country. Apart from this, intellectual capacity o f
Corps members as graduates of higher institutions makes them easily
trainable and assets for partnership in voter education exercise.
Against this background, there should be a review of the existing MoU
and implementation of its content by the two organ izations to include
voters’ education. Put differently, one of the best ways of sustaining the
collaboration between the two organizations is to review the MoU to
take care of some sections that are vague. Issues such as the definition
of welfare should be addressed in the MoU to make for clarity and
avoidance of administrative overlap. Provisions such as security of
Corps members and their general welfare must be included in the MoU.
Participation of Corps members in voters’ education may then be made
compulsory.
In order to consolidate on the gains of NYSC partnership, INEC should
involve Corps members during the voter education, registration
exercise, distribution and updating of voters register which ought to
commence immediately after the conclusion of any election. Corps
members can be mobilized by the Department of Voter Education at
INEC to educate communities during the Corps weekly Community
Development Service (CDS) program. The continuous voters register
can be incorporated in the CDS activities. Corps members have
effectively taken part in awareness and voters’ education in Imo, Osun
and FCT; this could be replicated in other states and local governments
of the federation. As such, Corps members’ weekly Community
Development Service could be used to train Corps members on voters’
education and other relevant assignments..
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Corps Members and Voters ’ Education in Nigeria
47
Reference
Amechi, O.R. et al “Political education in Nigeria: the Mobilization
Theory Thesis Perspective” in Arts and Humanities Open Access
Journal, 2(5), 2018.
Atime, B. “The Place of the Youths in Nigeria’s Democratic Leadership,
1999 - 2019” in Journal of History and Social Science , Vol.11,
No.1, 2020.
Center for Democracy and Development, “Who is the King Maker in
Nigeria: The Voter or the Godfather?” Being a Briefing Note on
Voter Education and the 2015 Elections in Nigeria, 2014.
Dalton, R.J. “Cognitive Mobilisation and Partisan Dealignment in
Advanced Industrial Democracy” in Journal of Politics , 46(1),
1984.
Gallego, A. “Understanding Unequal Turnout: Education and Voting in
Comparative Perspective” in Electoral Studies, 29, 2010.
http://democracy-support.eu/nigeria/posts/sensitization-and-
recruitment-of-corp-members-at-orientation-camp-june-
september-and-november-2018
https://dailytrust.com/foundation-organises-workshop-on-voters-
education
Ibeanu, O.  “Introduction” in Ibeanu, O.  and Orji, N.  (eds.) Approaches
to Civic and Voter Education: Nigeria’s Experience in
Comparative Perspective (Abuja: INEC), 2014.
Memorandum of Understanding between Independent National
Electoral Commission and National Youth Service Corps of 24
th
September, 2013.
Nnedinso, H. “Need for Voter Education for Political Stability in Nigeria”
in Knowledge Review, 30 (1), 2014.
Oduola, S.O.  “Vo ters’ Education and Credible Election in Nigeria: Issues
and Challenges of 2019 General Elections” in International
Journal of Politics and Good Governance, Vol.XI, No.11, 2020.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Barnabas M. Atime
48
Ofonmbuk, T.I. “Voter Education through Social Media: An Analytical
Study of Independent Electoral Commission’s Twitter and
Facebook Platforms” in International Journal of Humanities and
Social Science, Vol.7, Issue 3, 2020.
Okon , G.B. “Voter Education by the Nigerian Broadcast Media: A
Normative Appraisal of three Radio Stations in Port Harcourt
Metropolis” in Journal of Media Studies, 28(1), 2013.
Osumah, O.  “Paradigm Shift: Youth Engagement in the Conduct of the
2015 Elections in Nigeria” in Journal of African Elections, Vol.1,
No.1, 2016.
Uhunmwuangho, S.O.  and Aibieyi, S. “S ensitization of Secondary School
Students towards Sustainable Electoral Process in Nigeria:
Nigeria Independent Electoral Commission as a Focus” in
African Research Review: An International Multidisciplinary
Journal, Vol. 6 (3), 2012.
WFD “Assessment of V oter Education in Osun State, Nigeria” retrieved
online from https://www.wfd.org/2020/01/06/assessment-of-
voter-education-in-osun-state-nigeria
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Corps Members and the Conduct of Voter Registration
49
4
Corps Members and the Conduct of Voter Registration
Baba Isaac Ibrahim
Introduction
As part of the move for global best practices in governance, democracy
is being clamoured for as the alternative to any form of government.
Otoide and Akinbi, in this light, observed that, “if military rule is evil,
democracy is better evil”.
i
Accordingly, military rule has in its all
benevolence been seen as misnomer and incongruous to any people.
The ascendancy of global democracy has made it important for the
desire of many African countries and African leaders to enthrone
democratic system of governance in African states. This is germane
because barely few years after the attainment of independence by most
African countries from their erstwhile colonial overlords,
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Baba Isaac Ibrahim
50
constitutionally formed governments were toppled in military coup
d’état, a de velopment that is an aberration under civil government
structures.  In the case of Nigeria, military interregnum became part of
Nigeria’s national life and indeed, the form of government that have
stayed longer in office than the elected governments.
ii
Nigerians
became weary of the military in politics and therefore when the
campaign for global democracy gathered momentum in the late 1980s
and early 1990s, it was a welcomed development as the people formed
political parties that they hoped would deliver to t hem the kind of
government that they are part of and that would be accountable to the
people unlike the military government where “might is right” and the
constitution is suspended giving rooms for a rule by decree which is
often dictatorial and in extreme draconian.
Democracy is a concept that does not seems to lend itself to any
universally accepted definition because of the ideological, cultural and
historical contextualization that underpins its several meanings. The
liberals or capitalists, socialists and Africans, have in mind their own
brand of democracy.
iii
Inspite of the differences in conceptualizations
and practices, all version of democracy share one fundamental
objective: how to govern the society in such a way that power actually
belongs to all t he people.
iv
The people retain power through the ballot;
hence, election is one of the major components of democracy. Election
is periodic occurrence in a democracy where the citizens gather to
choose who their leader(s) should be over a period of time. Election can
be defined as the process or means through which the electorates
choose their representatives into government.
v
Election is an important
aspect of democracy and if the processes are not right, the outcome will
never be right. Leaders that emerge through the electoral process,
represents the interest of the people or the electorates that chose them.
Election therefore, as it were, establishes a social contract between the
representative(s) and the people. Election is apparently intended to
establish a government that serves the interest of the people.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Corps Members and the Conduct of Voter Registration
51
Democracy functions through the Constitution. The Constitution served
as the guiding principles and supreme law of the land and therefore
must be respected and followed. The essence of democracy is t o nip in
the bud unconstitutional takeover of government. It is the concern of
African leaders who are committed to ensuring global best practices in
the area of government, governance, economy, social development
among others, that made them to come toget her at a roundtable
discussion at various fora to discuss the challenges facing Africa and
the way forward, so that Africa can be among the First World and
industrialized economies. Consequently, we have several declarations
and charters like The African C harter on Democracy, Election and
Governance (ACDEG), which is a very important document on
democracy, election and governance in Africa because it is a
conglomeration of several previous Declarations and was intended to
affirm, strengthen and enhance such Declarations as The 1990
Declaration on the Political and Socio -Economic Situation in Africa and
the fundamental changes taking place in the world; The 1995 Cairo
Agenda for the Re -launch of Africa’s Economic and Social Development;
The Algiers Declaratio n on Unconstitutional Changes of Government;
The 2000 Lome Declaration for OAU Response to Unconstitutional
Changes of Government, The 2002 OAU/AU Declaration on Principles
Governing Democratic Elections in Africa; The 2003 Protocol Relating
to the Establi shment of the Peace and Security Council of the African
Union.
vi
This paper therefore, appraises the processes in the pre -election issues
as they have implications for the conduct of elections and the practice
of democracy in Nigeria and in line with global best practices.
Historical Background of Electoral Commission
The origin of Electoral bodies in Nigeria can be traced to the period
before Independence when the Electoral Commission of Nigeria (ECN)
was established to conduct 1959 elections. The Federal Electoral
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Baba Isaac Ibrahim
52
Commission (FEC), established in 1960 conducted the immediate post -
independence federal and regional elections of 1964 and 1965
respectively. The electoral body was however, dissolved after the
military coup of 1966. In 1978, a new Federal Electo ral Commission
(FEDECO) was constituted by the regime of General Olusegun
Obasanjo. FEDECO organized the elections of 1979, which ushered in
the Second Republic under the leadership of Alhaji Shehu Shagari. It
also conducted the General elections of 1983.
In December 1995, the military government of General Sani Abacha,
which earlier dissolved NEC in 1993, established the National Electoral
Commission of Nigeria (NECON), which also conducted another set of
elections; Local Government councils to National As sembly. These
elected institutions were however not inaugurated before the sudden
death of General Abacha, on June 8, 1998 aborted the process. In 1998
General Abdulsalam Abubakar’s Administration dissolved NECON and
established the Independent National El ectoral Commission (INEC).
The body organized all transitional elections that ushered in the 4th
republic on May 29 1999. It has today repositioned itself to deliver
credible elections that would sustain Nigeria’s developing democracy.
As a permanent body, INEC comprises the workforce recruited since
1987 under the defunct National Electoral Commission (NEC). Its
presence has been established in all the 36 states, the Federal Capital
Territory as well as in the 774 Local Government Areas of Nigeria. The
Commission (INEC) is the main agent (umpire) of democracy in Nigeria.
INEC is a permanent body created by the constitution to organize
Federal and State elections in Nigeria. The mission of the Independent
National Electoral Commission (INEC) is to:
i. Educate Nigerian citizens about democracy and the
election process;
ii. Provide for voter registration;
iii. Compile a credible voters’ register;
iv. Demarcate constituency boundaries;
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Corps Members and the Conduct of Voter Registration
53
v. Organize and conduct credible elections;
vi. Monitor the conduct of political parties;
vii. Audit the finances of political parties, and
viii. Promote an enduring democratic culture in Nigeria.
While t he vision of Independent National Electoral Commission, is that
of a dynamic and formidable organization that is a major force in the
continuation and furtherance of democracy in Nigeria. Also, INEC seeks
to be a widely respected and credible institution f or democratic
governance in the nation. INEC will be seen as a political anchor of
democracy in Nigeria and the whole of Africa.
vii
Besides, as an institution that is determined to be excellent in service
delivery, the principles that guide INEC in the fulfi llment of its mission
and vision are:
Transparency: INEC will be open and transparent in all activities and
in its relations with the political stakeholders, media organizations,
INEC service providers and the people of Nigeria.
Integrity: INEC will be tru thful and honest in all dealings with the
people of Nigeria, its political stakeholders and each other.
Credibility: INEC will strive to ensure that the people of Nigeria and in
particular the political stakeholders will readily accept all of our actions
and activities. We will be an institution that the people can trust.
Impartiality: INEC will endeavor to create a level playing field for all
political actors.
Dedication: INEC is committed to providing the highest quality
election services to the people of Nigeria. We will also work to ensure
that merit will continue to be the basis for the compensation,
promotion and recruitment of staff.
viii
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Baba Isaac Ibrahim
54
Election Management and National Youth Service Corps
Election management is a complex process that requires the effort of
the umpire, the people, the security agencies, the Civil Society
Organizations (CSOs) and Non -Governmental and Governmental
Organizations. Consequently, this informs the decision of the
Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to begin en tering
into partnership with various groups like the National Youth Service
Corps (NYSC) to ensure that the Commission delivers on her mandate.
Looked at closely, one of the objectives of the NYSC is to inculcate
discipline in the Nigerian youths by instil ling in them a tradition of
industry at work.... which if critically looked at is in tandem with the
guiding principles of INEC. The NYSC has since participated in the
management and conduct of elections in Nigeria since the partnership
began.
Young people have been active participants in elections in
contemporary Nigeria, playing significant and visible roles in election
management. The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) played a
significant role by managing the biometric voter registration exercise
conducted by the INEC in 2010 and supported the administration of the
2011 elections.
ix
The 2011 General elections was a paradigm shift in the
management and administration of elections in Nigeria with the
constitution of an independent and credible leadership at the
Independent National Electoral Commission, and deployment of
innovative strategies like the mainstreaming of youth in election
management and the deployment of technology to deepen the
inclusiveness and enhance the integrity of elections by the commission
in its bid to enhance liberal democracy. These new innovations and
policy reforms laid the f oundation for the conduct of successive
democratic elections, and expanded partnership in election
management and administration in Nigeria.
As stated earlier several complexities are inherent in the conduct of
elections in Nigeria with its vast voting pop ulation. For instance, INEC
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Corps Members and the Conduct of Voter Registration
55
requires over 700,000 personnel to adequately manage the conduct of
elections.
x
With its 15,000 permanent staff and the inability to
accommodate more, due to limited budget, the need to recruit ad hoc
staff for voter registration and polling station services is critical.
In the past, ad hoc staffs were drawn from government institutions and
private individuals who had no definite records or verifiable addresses.
The use of ad hoc staff was characterized by various electoral
malfeasance which undermined the integrity of elections.
xi
Defaulting
ad hoc election officials could not be held accountable due to poor
documentation and unverifiable addresses.
xii
Following the conduct of
the 2007 General elections,
xiii
INEC resolved to engage you ng people
under the NYSC scheme in the conduct of by -elections and re -
run/supplementary elections. The first engagement of NYSC members
as polling clerks in the conduct of elections began in 2008.
xiv
This
partnership with INEC has been very productive so far so good and
requires sustainability.
The Corps members have participated in pre -election activities like
voter registration, which is a core component of the mission of INEC;
that is, to provide for voter registration; Compile a credible voters’
register. Therefore, it is important to embark on continuous voter
registration for those that turned 18 years of age after the last election
in the country. As it is traditional to INEC before e very General election,
voters’ registration is carried out in line wit h the electoral time table,
spending huge sums of money. For instance, Atahiru Jega ; the then
INEC Chairman barely four months after he assumed office in 2011,
requested for the release of funds to enable the commission to kick -
start the electoral process with the voters’ registration exercise.
xv
But
despite the huge sums of money being expended on elections
management, Corps members who were deployed for the exercise
often complained that their allowances were being withheld or
delayed.
xvi
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Baba Isaac Ibrahim
56
However, further investigation revealed that this delay in payments
could be as a result of technical issues in the INEC that are often
resolved within record time.
Conclusion
Indeed, the partnership between NYSC and INEC has been very helpful
in the management and administration of elections in Nigeria, there are
certain challenges which if not properly managed could create clogs in
the wheel of progress. To start with; poor welfare and logistics and
delay in the payment of allowances if not addressed could hampered
the activities of the commission . Besides, Insecurity and violence have
been reported on several occasions before, during and after elections
and Corps members have been vulnerable to intimidation and violence.
Therefore, adequate security should be provi ded so as to encourage
Corps members' active participation in the conduct of electoral process
in Nigeria.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Corps Members and the Conduct of Voter Registration
57
Endnotes
i
Otoide, L.E. and Akinbi, J.O., “Democracy: A Sine Qua Non to National
Development in Nigeria”. International Journal of Social and
Policy Issues, Vol. 2, No. 1&2, 2004. p.32
ii
For more details on Military Rule in Nigeria, see F.O. Ifamosa and O.E.
Ojo, Main Trends in Nigerian History: From 1800 To 2000.
Ibadan: Oluwatoyin Publishers, 2016.
iii
Emmanuel O. Ojo, “Democratic Transition in Nigeria: A Panoramic View
of Hurdles in Governance, Democracy and Civil Society”. Ife
Social Review, 1998.pp.8-9.
iv
Osaghae, E.E., “Ethnicity and Democracy”, quoted in Emmanuel O. Ojo,
1998, p.9
v
B.C. Nwankwo, Authority in Government: Nigeria and World Politics,
Revise Edition, Onitsha: Abbot Books Limited, 2002. p.147
vi
See African Charter on Democracy, Election and Governance, pp.1-2.
vii
www.inecnigeria.org and www.inec.gov.ng See also B.C. Nwankwo,
Authority in Government: Nigeria and World Politics, Revise
Edition, Onitsha: Abbot Books Limited, 2002. p.157
viii
www.inecnigeria.org and www.inec.gov.ng See also INEC Manual for
Election Officials 2015, p.10
ix
Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Report of the
Registration and Election Review Committee, 2012; Independent
National Electoral Commission (INEC), Report on the 2011
General Elections, 2013
x
INEC Report of the 2015 General Elections, July 2015 (Unpublished)
xi
Memoradum of Understanding between INEC and NYSC
xii
Ibrahim, Jibrin and Garuba, D. Governance and Institution-Building in
Nigeria: A Study of the Independent National Electoral
Commission  (Abuja: Center for Democracy and Development,
2008)
xiii
The 2007 general elections were manifestly the worst in Nigerian
electoral history. The election was characterized by massive
rigging, violence and voter intimidation. Both international and
domestic observers noted that the election fell short of international
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Baba Isaac Ibrahim
58
standards for election conduct. President Umar Musa Yar'Adua
admitted that the elections were marred by irregularities, hence, his
setting up of an Electoral Reform Committee under the
Chairmanship of Justice Muhammed Uwais.
xiv
In Kogi State Governorship Re-run election held on Saturday, March 29,
2008. 5,851 NYSC members were engaged as polling clerks.
xv
Chris Ajaero, “The Pragmatic Radical at INEC”, News watch, Vol. 52,
No. 18, November 1, 2010. p.10.
xvi
George Onah, "Corpers on voter registration exercise, down tools, protest
non-payment of allowances", Vanguard Newspaper, ON
JANUARY 25, 2011.
https://www.vanguardngr.com/2011/01/corpers-on-voter-
registration-exercise-down-tools-protest-non-payment-of-
allowances/
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Corps Members and the Conduct of the 2015/2019 Elections
59
5
Corps Members and the Conduct of the 2015/2019
Elections
Onoja Augustine
Introduction
By the last decade of the 20
th
century, the wave of democratization
began to blow across the political climate of continental Africa leading
to the emergence of democratic regimes and the entrenchment of
democratic values and culture. Though with some hiccups, the gradual
transition fr om military regimes and other undemocratic governance
practices began to take the centre stage of political discourse on the
continent. The old order began to give way to the new emerging era of
democracy and democratization. Though in some instances the p rocess
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Onoja Augustine
60
appeared marred by controversy, instability, frequent or intermittent
military incursions, unhealthy political rivalry, ethno -regional crisis
leading to a very chaotic political ambience, the crave for
democratization continued unabated. The resultant effect was the near-
total democratization of the continent’s political climate by the dawn of
the 21
st
century.  Nigeria, one of the largest democracies in Africa
provides the best description and example of democratization process
on the continent and elsewhere. Since the disengagement of the
military from the political scene in 1999, the country has had in
succession six national elections that led to civilian to civilian
transitions without disruptions of the democratic system.
It is imperative to note that elections are essential ingredients and
fundamental component of any participatory democracy in any
democratic society. It provides the citizenry the opportunity of making
choices from among contending candidates and political parties in the
electoral process.
1
Thus, for any democratic experiment or attempt at
democratization to be worth  the name, it must be a product of credible
elections with all the ingredients of integrity. The electoral process thus
becomes a vital component of any democracy . This explains why
election management bodies like the Independent National Electoral
Commission (INEC) in Nigeria occupy a very central, significant and
strategic position in any electoral process and by implication the
process of democratization and its consolidation. As observed, the
primary goal of any election management body is to organize and
conduct free, fair and credible elections with an outcome that is
acceptable by all stake holders.
2
The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC)
In Nigeria, INEC was established as electoral body by the provision of
section 153 (1) (1) of the constitution of the Federal Republic of
Nigeria. The function of the body as spelt out  in the Electoral Act
(2010) includes but not limited to registration of pol itical parties,
organizing elections, registration of voters and monitoring political
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Corps Members and the Conduct of the 2015/2019 Elections
61
parties.
3
Prior to the establishment of INEC, there had existed other
electoral bodies before and since independence. The defunct Electoral
Commission of Nigeria (ECN) wa s the precursor of all electoral bodies
in the country. The Federal Electoral Commission (FEC) was
established at independence in 1960. The FEC conducted the 1964/5
elections. In 1978 following the political transition program
orchestrated by the military junta, the military government under the
then Gen. Olusegun Obasanjo established the Federal Electoral
Commission (FEDECO) which midwife the military - civilian transition
elections in 1979 and the general elections of 1983 which were
conducted under the ci vilian administration of Alhaji Shehu Shagari.
The National Electoral Commission (NEC) which conducted the
national elections of 1987, 1990, 1991 and 1993 was set up by the
Ibrahim Babangida military regime. Consequently the Abacha military
administration that succeeded the Babangida regime established the
National Electoral Commission of Nigeria (NECON). The Abdusalami
Abubakar junta that anchored the 1999 political transition program
created the present Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC)
in 1998. The most recent of the activities of INEC was the conduct of
the 2015/2019 general elections in the country.
The 2015 and 2019 General Elections: The Synopsis
On March 28, 2015 and 23 March, 2019, Nigeria held her fifth and sixth
presidential electi ons since the end of military rule in 1999 and the
entrenchment of democratic rule in Nigeria’s democratic space through
the transition program that led to the transfer of political power from
the military to civilian administration. The two main president ial
candidates in both elections were incumbent presidents of the ruling
political parties and candidates of foremost popular and strong
opposition parties. In the 2015 elections, the contest was between the
incumbent president of the ruling People’s Democ ratic Party (PDP), Dr.
Goodluck Ebele Jonathan and Gen. Muhammadu Buhari, the candidate
for the leading opposition party, the All Progressive Congress (APC)
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Onoja Augustine
62
which emerged from a mega merger arrangement in 2013. The 2019
general elections in the same vein w ere between the incumbent
president Muhammadu Buhari of APC and Atiku Abubakar of PDP.
While in the 2015 elections the incumbent president lost to the
opposition,  the incumbent in the 2019 elections won the opposition
and was returned as such.
7
And while the outcome of the 2015
elections further strengthened the country’s democratic architecture
and advanced our democratic culture and values and instilled
confidence in the enduring democratic experiment and the whole
gamut of the democratization process as a result of the acceptance of
the results by the incumbent president and the rancor -free hand over
of political power to the opposition without post -election litigation and
violence, the 2019 elections and the consequent declaration of the
incumbent as th e winner elicited widespread condemnation, rejection
and contestation of the results declared by INEC. It engendered post -
election litigation that ended at the Supreme Court even as post -
election violence beclouded the political landscape of Nigeria. In th e
face of all these, the gains of the 2015 elections were lost even as the
confidence of the citizenry in the electoral body and the electioneering
process vis a vis the emerging democratic system began to wane. Just
as the June 12 1993 presidential electi ons outcome actualized the
mandate of the amalgamation of 1914 in Nigeria’s political history
8
,the
2015 elections  firmly entrenched the culture of peaceful transition of
political power from civilian -civilian without litigation and any political
intransigence, the 2015 elections was to take Nigeria to the pre -2015
political era.
INEC, the body saddled with the responsibility of conducting a free and
fair elections in the country grappled with  a lot of credibility problems
and logistic arrangement  and mo bilization of both human and material
resources  as prerequisites for successful conduct of elections. Central
and pivotal to the human resources mobilization strategy are the
engagements of ad hoc staff that will on behalf of the body conduct the
elections in the field. This is against the backdrop of the problem of
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Corps Members and the Conduct of the 2015/2019 Elections
63
shortage of staff. One group that is often recruited, mobilized, trained,
engaged and deployed to the field to practically conduct elections are
the youth service Corps members on national service.
The 2015/2019 Pre- Election Environments
It is imperative and essential to critically periscope the pre -election
political environments in which the 2015/2019 general elections were
conducted. This is necessary against the backdrop of having a
knowledge or clue of the nature and kinds of the political ambience
under which ad hoc staff with particular reference to the youth Corps
members were mobilized to function as election officials. It is pertinent
to note from the onset that the campaign process c reated an
atmosphere of political intolerance and unfriendliness occasioned by
campaign of calumny and mudslinging, crowned by hate speech and
violence in some instances. While party leaders signed peace pact or
accord treaty with the security agents, part y faithful and supporters
committed themselves to inter -party wrangling, rivalries, thuggery,
gangsterism and cult -related activities that were inimical and
antithetical to peaceful political climate that could guarantee peaceful
election. Many Nigerians w ere deeply concerned about election related
violence. As observed in some quarters, Nigeria has the history of
election violence in the pre and post election periods and most notably
in the 2011 elections in which more than 800 people were killed and
tens of thousands displaced in post -election violence. The nation’s
human right commissio n reported that in the February 2015 elections,
more than 60 incidents of election -related violence took place in at
least across the six geo -political zones which had left 58 people dead
and many more injured. They also noted an increase of hate speech in
the run -up to the election including hate speech published in the media
and during campaign rallies by party surrogates. It was also alleged
that an outgoing state governor was caught on video calling on party
supporters to “crush and kill” “cockroaches.” There were other alleged
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Onoja Augustine
64
incidences of high profile individuals calling for violence against any
one campaigning for change.
9
Insecurity
There was a general feeling of insecurity that permeated all the regions
of the country. In the northeastern region, Boko Haram insurgency was
one of the many issues that affected the pre -election environment in
the north. Available sources hold that over the year’s insurgency has
claimed over 9000 lives and possibly thousands more and displaced
and rendered homeless hundreds of thousands. In February 2015 when
INEC postponed the election on the ground of the looming insecurity,
Boko Haram controlled 14 LGAs across Adamawa, Borno and Yobe
states. Soon after the postponement, Boko Haram leader, Abubakar
Shekau declared the group’s intention to violently disrupt the
election.
10
Accusations and counter accusations relating to insurgency
and insecurity elsewhere were exchanged between political parties and
the question of how the various candidates would handle the knotty
issue of insecurity took the front burner of political discourse and
debates. While the peace and security of the northwest continued to be
threatened by the activities of notorious bandits, cattle rustlers and
other acts of criminalities by criminal elements, the Middle Belt region
was often invaded and ravaged by militant herdsmen who continue to
destroy farms, homes and lives of the people indigenous to the area for
grazing purposes. There were also incessant criminal activities of
kidnappers along the Benue valley and the Niger that made life a
nightmare. Both the southeast and southwest were not insulated. Thus,
from the Sahara across the north to the east of the Niger, and from the
valley of the Benue to the forest belt of the ancient Alafinate, insecurity
loomed.
The Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs)
As a result of the activities of Boko Haram in the northeast and the
raiding herdsmen in the Benue valley, hundreds of thousands of people
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Corps Members and the Conduct of the 2015/2019 Elections
65
were displaced, rendered homeless and consequently found
themselves in internally displaced persons homes or camps. While
many lost their voters card (PVC) during the raids and attacks and as
such could not vote hence disenfranchised, there was a legal
impediment that prohibited voters from casting ballots outside of the ir
constituencies which created serious concerns regarding how INEC and
the government would ensure the IDPs were not disenfranchised.
Since 2015, the major issues that dominated national discourse
centered on security, economic hardship, recession, increa sing
unemployment and anti -corruption in the build up to the general
elections of 2015 and 2019. The period also witnessed astronomical
increase in the number of registered political parties as different
groups and interests jostled for political power. Th us, the 2015/2019
general elections were keenly contested. This was to have marginal
effects on INEC in terms of logistics and by extension the Directorate of
NYSC as a major stake holder in terms of provision of the bulk of the ad
hoc staff in facilitatin g the overall success of the elections. For instance,
91 registered political parties and 73 presidential candidates contested
the 2019 elections.
11
The pre -election environment just like in 2015
was characterized by a lot of uncertainties and problems that appeared
near-intractable. There were a lot of internal wrangling within the
political parties, political gerrymandering and cross carpeting by
politicians were the order of the day. There was a clear perception that
intra-party rather than inter -party co nflict dominated the political
scene. As a result of the fierce competition among contending interests
during party primaries, there were widespread allegations, accusations
and counter accusations of elections not been conducted according to
the rules of the game leading to series of litigation and in some
instances outright cancellation and annulment. Zamfara and Rivers
states are cases in point. As noted by an observer team, there were a
large number of cases before the court (more than 640) challenging
primaries and other issues relating to elections.
12
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Onoja Augustine
66
Allied to the above was the “dilapidated” nature of the national
economy on the eve of the elections. Though Africa’s largest economy
by gross domestic product (GDP), about 87million Nigerians live in
extreme and abject poverty according to the world poverty check
representing 46.7% of the total population. The economy entered a
deep recession in 2016 with attendant high unemployment particularly
among the youth (36.5%).
13
With more than half of the popula tion
within the age bracket of 25 and many within the eligible voting age,
the economy and unemployment were key concerns across the country
with the practice of money politics epitomized in vote buying and
inducement to influence the outcome of the elections.
It was against the above cited political backgrounds and pre -election
environments that the youth Corps members were mobilized and
engaged in the 2015/2019 elections as ad hoc staff and it is against this
backdrop that the participation and involvemen t of the Corps members
will be examined.
INEC, NYSC and Corps Members Involvement in Electoral
Processes
As election management body, the Independent National Electoral
Commission since inception has continued to grapple with the problem
of shortage of st aff in conducting electi ons and managing other
election–related activities. This explains its reliance on ad hoc staff to
achieve success in its electoral processes. Thus, since coming into being
in 1960, INEC has continued to employ and engage ad hoc staf f to
perform various functions during elections. One organisation or body
INEC often goes into partnership with to achieve its electoral goals is
the NYSC. This is often done through requests and the signing of
memorandum of understanding between the two b odies in 2010. This
agreement was reviewed and formalized in 2013. Despite the existence
of MoU, Corps members are not under any compulsion to partake in
elections. The involvement of Corps members in actual elections began
with their engagement as polling clerks in the conduct of Kogi State
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Corps Members and the Conduct of the 2015/2019 Elections
67
governorship re -run election held on Saturday, 29
th
March, 2008.
14
The
success of this first experiment led to further engagement of Corps
members in the conduct of bye elections, re -run and supplementary
elections adjudged to be satisfactory.
The engagement of Corps members in election assignment is often
predicated on INEC perception that as graduates of higher institutions,
Corps members are easily trainable, making them useful assets to
partner with. It is also the thinking of INEC that the deployment of
Corps members to all part s and localities of the country makes the
Corps members particularly suitable for national elections. Also
carrying out their national service o utside their states and localities
guarantee their neutrality and non partisanship since they have no
political interest at stake. Concomitantly, the nationalistic value
inculcated in the Corps members during orientation course makes
them ready for any nat ional course. It is also the believe of INEC that
the internal disciplinary mechanism as enshrined in the NYSC bye -laws
makes sanctioning of Corps members involved in electoral fraud and
other malpractices easy.
15
The Roles of Corps Members in the 2015/2019 Elections
By virtue of the training and the inculcation of national values and
ethics vis a vis their nationalistic proclivity, Corps members are
strategically positioned to partake in a national assignment like
elections. In accordance with the Memoran dum of Understanding
between INEC and NYSC, the commission opened a website to
interested Corps members to apply for engagement ad hoc jobs in the
2015 and 2019 general elections. Thereafter, names of short listed
Corps members who were considered for the jobs were released. The
recruitment exercise was followed by training session or program
organized by INEC for the Corps members on their expected roles and
responsibilities and the nitty -gritty of the exercise. Their roles as
assigned by INEC in the 2015 and 2019 elections include;
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Onoja Augustine
68
i. Registration of voters for elections.
ii. Issuance of voters cards before the commencement of
elections.
iii. Responsible for setting up and managing the polling station
and sundry logistics.
iv. Participating as Presiding Officers during elections
v. Operating card readers as a requirement for free and fair
polls
vi. Issuing signed ballot papers to voters
vii. Ensure that voters place ballot papers in the ballot boxes
viii. Sort out ballotpapers
ix. Verify the existence of voters on voters list
x. Verify valid and invalid votes
xi. Count both valid and invalid votes
xii. Count in the open the number of votes cast on political
party basis
xiii. Complete the result sheets and paste the result at the
polling unit
xiv. Fill the necessary forms and make returns to the collation
centre.
16
Despite the plethora of problems that militated against the Corps
members in conducting the two elections like late arrival and
distribution of election materials, card readers malfunctioning, lack of
security personnel at the polls, threats and in some in stances violence
against them by party thugs and surrogates and in some cases lack of
simple logistic arrangements like seats and tables, Corps members
deployed their initiatives and intellectual abilities and capabilities to
conduct credible elections. In spite of all these human and material
challenges, Corps members put up a brave front in defense of
democracy and the integrity of the nation in the face of the
international observer teams. However, while the 2015 general
elections to some extent was adju dged to be credible, free and fair
against the backdrop of which the result of the presidential election
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Corps Members and the Conduct of the 2015/2019 Elections
69
was not contested or challenged in the court by the incumbent who
accepted the outcome and handed over political power to the winner,
the 2019 election s were to elicit a lot of litigations and widespread
rejection on the ground of the whole processes not being free and fair.
The opposition rejected the results and outcome in its entirety and
claimed victory. The post -election political climate thus becam e fused
with acrimony, hate speech, accusations and counter accusations of
election rigging, vote buying, violence epitomized in ballot boxes
snatching, use of fire arms, intimidation and manhandling of election
officers including Corps members. Against th e backdrop of these
abuses, the credibility of the elections and the integrity of INEC became
questioned.
Corps Members and the Challenges of the 2015/2019 Elections
Public Skepticism; The perception of the public towards the
collaboration between INEC an d NYSC has been mixed. The public
appear skeptical of the marriage of understanding between the two
federal bodies. While some view the collaboration as credible and
successful, others are cynical. Many of those who express cynicism
often blame Corps membe rs for any hitch or failure in the elections just
like other ad hoc staff who are often blamed for hitches or failures in
any election -related matters. This kind of sentiment does not augur
well for a continuous healthy synergy and collaboration. Corps
members are often demoralized and discouraged in participating in
such national assignments subsequently. For instance, the failure of the
card readers during the 2015 general elections in some polling units
was blamed on the ad hoc staff. Even more frighteni ng, this perception
has led to instances of molestation sometimes with fatality.
Non Implementation of the MoU
One of the fundamental components of the entity or understanding
reached between INEC and NYSC in the deployment of Corps members
for election i s welfare of which logistics are central and pivotal.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Onoja Augustine
70
Fundamental to this issue is the transportation of Corps members to
areas or places of primary assignments or “Registration Area Centers”
(RAC). The RACs were set up to ease movement of Corps members an d
materials during elections. Corps members were gathered at these
centers where they received election materials before proceeding to
polling units. It was incumbent on INEC to provide basic
accommodation and sanitation facilities at the centers. However, many
of the RACs lack these. Concomitantly, the electoral body failed to make
provisions to transport Corps members either to or from the training
centers, RACs or the polling units.
Lack of Synergy between the two Institutions
In some instances one of t he parties in agreement reneged on the MoU.
During the 2015 general elections for instance some of the staff in the
institutions worked at cross purposes to the spirit of the MoU. While
the MoU clearly states that NYSC State Coordinators are members of
the Inter-Agency Consultative Committee on Election Security
(ICCESS), in some states, Resident Electoral Commissioners (RECs)
blatantly refused to engage them in that capacity until the intervention
of INEC Headquarters. Again, Corps members interested in
participating in the elections as officials were required to register on
line. However, the electoral body did not involve NYSC in the
recruitment or posting of Corps members. This made verification of the
identities of Corps members vis a vis fake Corps mem bers difficult. This
incident makes assessing the performance of Corps members
problematic.
Electoral Violence against Corps Members
Electoral violence against Corps members on INEC ad hoc assignment
can act as a disincentive for further participation in election related
activity. For instance, in the 2011 elections, eleven Corps members lost
their lives in the course of their election duties. This to a large extent
discouraged many Corps members from participating in INEC ad hoc
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Corps Members and the Conduct of the 2015/2019 Elections
71
jobs. Where Corps members are willing to participate, they are often
discouraged by their more circumspect parents and guardians. The
tragic incidence of 2011 compelled the youths Scheme to review Corps
members participation in electoral processes. Thenceforth Corps
members serve a s election officials only on their own volition. This
impacted negatively on the spirit of the synergy and collaboration as it
reduces the number of Corps members willing to serve as ad hoc staff
in further elections.
Poor Remuneration of Ad hoc Staff
Adhoc staff engaged by INEC are grossly underpaid. The amount often
paid for the work done was grossly inadequate. This poor
remuneration dampened the morale of the Corps members and made
them susceptible to inducement. INEC failure to state from the onset
the remuneration, often create suspicion with attendant speculation. It
was speculated in some quarters during the 2015 elections that Corps
members would receive a minimum of fifty thousand naira as payment.
It took a press statement from NYSC to douse the t ension generated by
the speculation within the circle of Corps members. In some instances
the payment of the honorarium is unnecessarily delayed. In FCT, the
management had to intervene and appeal for calm when Corps
members wanted to protest due to delay in the payment of their
election duty allowances.
The NYSC FCT Management hereby shares with you the pains and all
the inadequacies you passed through in your INEC undertakings. The
delayed payment of your entitlements, feeding and training allowances
by I NEC and all other hardships experienced. In view of the above, the
NYSC FCT Management has been working tooth and nail with INEC to
ensure prompt settlement of all your entitlements and conducive
working conditions/environment is put in pl ace in all other future
tasks. We therefore implore you to be calm and law abiding. Remember
that the NYSC by -law is against unlawful assemblage or participation in
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Onoja Augustine
72
demonstration or granting any form of address to the press or any
other medium of communication whatsoever.
17
This was not restricted to FCT Management alone but cut across the
whole country. These are indicators of a failing system. The deplorable
conditions the Corps members were subjected to were such that many
of them slept in the field and on bare ground wi thout security and with
the worst human sanitary conditions.
Recommendations
i. Improvement in Logistics and other sundry pre -election
arrangements
There is the imperative need for INEC to improve seriously on its
logistics and other pre -election arrangements. Enough vehicles should
be provided to convey Corps members to their posting units on the eve
of the elections to concretize preparations for the conduct of the
election the next day. Accommodations and bedding materials like
foam or mattress should be provided for the comfort of the Corps
members on national assignments. The situation where Corps
members slept outside in open field is not only appalling but inhuman.
ii. Involvement of NYSC from preparatory stage of elections
The synergy between I NEC and NYSC should be such that NYSC and
Corps members are brought into view from the preliminary stage of the
preparation for elections. They should be involved during the voter
education, registration exercise, distribution and updating of voters
register which ought to commence immediately after the conclusion of
any general election. Corps members can be mobilized towards all
these pre -election activities. Their participation and involvement in
advocacy program and public education in areas like polio, HIV/AIDS
etc, has given them enough experience that could also be replicated in
this regard.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Corps Members and the Conduct of the 2015/2019 Elections
73
iii. Review of the existing MoU and full implementation.
For a sustainable collaboration, every MoU should be subject to
periodic re -evaluation and review. This is capable of prolonging the life
span of such an entity as grey areas are looked into. It is against this
background that the MoU between the two organ izations should be
reviewed moving forward to address some vague sections and issues.
Issues such as welfare should be re -defined and re -appraised to make
for clarity and avoidance of administrative overlap. Provisions such as
security of Corps members on INEC assignment and their general
welfare must be well articulated and included in the MoU. There is also
the need for effective monitoring of staff and officials in the field by the
two organizations in order to checkmate excesses and lapses.
iv. Improve welfare package
INEC should make concerted effort to improve the welfare package of
its ad hoc staff through increase budgetary allocations. The body
should look into the issue of remunerations of Corps members with the
view to improving on it. Such improveme nt or increments can be a
morale booster for ad hoc staff . To achieve this there is the need for
INEC’s proposal for increment in its annual budgetary allocation.
Conclusion
Since 1999 that the military disengaged from Nigerian political scene,
midwife a democratic elections and transited political power to a
civilian government, the country has had and continue to have an
enduring democracy and uninterrupted democratization process that
has made Nigeria one of the largest democracies on the continent. Thi s
has put an end to frequent military disruptions and usurpation of
political power using the bayonet and through the instrumentality of
coup de tat. Since the commencement of the democratic experiment in
1999, the country has had six successful democratic transitions i.e
1999, 2003, 2007, 2011, 2015 and 2019. This has cultivated, deepened
and advanced Nigerian democratic culture and widened the democratic
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Onoja Augustine
74
space. The 2015 and 2019 elections were to further consolidate our
experience. While the 2015 election was adjudged to be a model for
other African countries, the 2019 was not because of the attendant
post-election issues that interrogated its integrity and fairness. As a
willing partner in election management and conduct, the NYSC has
been forthcoming in contributing marginally, ad hoc staff(youth Corps
members) that facilitated the success of the elections in the field. With
resilience and commitment to the national goals and objectives, the
Corps members weathered all the vicissitudes and vagaries of Nig erian
political environment to ensure success. However, the welfare of Corps
members in both elections were appalling to say the least, an issue that
needs urgent attention if Corps members will continue to be the
bedrock of INEC ad hoc staffs in subsequent elections.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Corps Members and the Conduct of the 2015/2019 Elections
75
References
1. Gumbi K.S., “Elections in Africa and the legitimacy of democratic
regimes: A Nigerian scenario.” Humanities and social sciences
Review. CD Rom. Issn 2165-62.58; 04. 2015.
2. Electoral Acts 2010
3. Electoral Acts 20110
4. Kwaja, C.M., “INEC and the management of elections: Lessons
from Nigeria”. Open society Institute, African Governance
Monitoring and Advocacy Project, 2008
5. Ayobami E., “The NYSC: A bridge to nationalism in Nigeria.”
Africa in transition. 2017
6. See NYSC Bye-laws (2011), NYSC NDAQ, Abuja
7. Nigerian general elections; 23 February, 2019:  Reports of the
Commonwealth Observer Groups.
8. Onoja, I.A., “From the amalgamation of 1914 to June 12
presidential election: The trajectory of national integration in
Nigeria.” SCSR Journal of Development, ISSN; 2384 -5341, vol. 1
Issue 2, June 2014
9. Aly, V, Chris, K., “Nigeria’s 2019 elections; Change, continuity
and the risks to peace.” Special Report.
10. See Aly, V and Chris, K. as above
11. Same as above
12. Nigerian general elections; 23 February, 2019:  Reports of the
Commonwealth Observer Groups.
13. See above
14. INEC and NYSC Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), 2013.
15. “NYSC managing Nigeria’s pluralism and national development:
NYSC contribution.”A  presentation of the NYSC Scheme to
participants of senior executive course (SEC) No 33, 2011 of the
National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies, Kuru, Plateau
State, AUGUST 29 -September 2,2011 at the conference hall,
NYSC Directorate Hdqrs, Maitama, Abuja.
16. See above.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Abah Danladi
76
6
Partnership for National Development:  NYSC, CSOS
and Election Monitoring In Nigeria
Abah Danladi
Introduction
The Nigeria’s National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Scheme was a post -
civil war initiative of the Federal Military Government aimed at
promoting sustainable reconciliation, reconstruction, rehabilitation
and national integration process after the horrendous human and
socio-economic calamities that accompanied the Nigerian Civil War
(1967-1970).
i
After the War in 1967, the socio -cultural and political
cords that held various ethnic groups in Nigeria were severely
damaged and there were ominous signs of permanent
disintegration.
ii
The massacre of the Igbos in Northern Nigerian states
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Partnership for National Development:
77
and the looting of assets belonging to the secessionist Igbo traders and
residents in Rivers and Lagos states intensified and consolidated the
spirit of disunity among various Nigeria ethnic nationalities.
iii
The Federal Government of Nigeria, under the then military head o f
state, General Yakubu Gowon as the military, reasoned, correctly too,
that there was the urgent need to establish an institution that will help
diffuse the acrimonies and hatred that the civil war created and
consolidated. As a result of this, by 1973, t he National Youth Service
Corps (NYSC) was established to help mobilize young Nigerian
graduates for a mandatory one year national service. Participants in the
Scheme were usually posted outside their home states. Through this
process, Corps members were e xpected to embark on community
projects in their areas of primary assignments.
iv
Since the establishment of the NYSC, a modicum of achievements have
been recorded in the areas of public health, education,
entrepreneurship development, community and social d evelopment,
inter-cultural diffusion through inter -ethnic marriages and other
strands of inter -group relations. Besides, more recently, the NYSC
Scheme has become a veritable tool for democratic consolidation
through its strategic partnership with the elec toral management body -
Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), development
partners and civil society organizations (CSOs).
v
The partnership between NYSC and the CSOs in election management
involve the training and deployment of NYSC members in t he various
stages of election management.  More importantly, NYSC members
have been involved in voter registration, conduct of elections and
election monitoring especially for both domestic and international
observers. The debates on the deployment of NYSC members in
elections especially in election monitoring in Nigeria is nuanced. Some
analysts believe that NYSC members should be kept at bay from
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Abah Danladi
78
elections because of their lack of experience and sometimes.
Inadequate training on elections. Others harp on the  inadequate
security and proper insurance cover for Corps members who suffered
some form of disabilities or lost their lives while on election related
duties.  Despite these sharp criticisms, scholars like Obadare
vi
and
Marrien 2015 argue that NYSC prov ides a veritable platform for
national integration and democratic consolidation. They recommended
the need for a deeper, effective collaboration between NYSC and Civil
society to enhance the skills of Corps members on electoral and
development issues.
vii
Arising from this strand of thought, this study provides an overview of
NYSC-CSOs engagement in election monitoring in Nigeria particularly
since the 2011 general elections in Nigeria by interrogating the
following research problems; what is the role of NYSC in democratic
consolidation? What is the pattern of NYSC -CSOs relations or
partnership in election monitoring? What are the challenges facing
NYSC-CSOs in election monitoring? By focusing on one government
institution, (that is, the NYSC), this study contr ibutes to the growing
literature on state -civil society relations in Nigeria by highlighting the
positive interventions and contributions of NYSC in the current quest
towards democratic consolidation in Nigeria through complementary
engagement with CSOs. I n order to investigate these research
problems, this paper is therefore, divided into four sections. Section
one provides conceptual clarifications of some key terms such as
partnership, civil society, election and election monitoring and
theoretical frame work of analysis. Section two briefly examines the
history and objectives of NYSC, section three focuses on the NYSC - civil
society partnership in election monitoring while section four
interrogates the challenges associated with NYSC -CSOs collaboration in
election monitoring.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Partnership for National Development:
79
Civil Society Organizations, Election Monitoring: Towards a
Conceptual Clarification
Civil Society Organizations have been variously defined by scholars and
therefore lack a definitive definition. Traore defines civil society as a
set of non -profit, voluntary NGOs, created by individuals with a
common objective to maintain a common focus. Often, acting in
anticipation or in response to situations of distress, civil society
organizations play a role in sensitizing, educating, training and raising
awareness of the people
viii
.  Similarly, Chukwuma defined civil society
as a set of institutions, organization and behaviour s ituated between
the state, business world and family. These include non -governmental
organization, private voluntary organizations, people’s organizations,
civic organizations, community -based organizations, cultural, gender,
religious, and social organiza tions
ix
. Ikelegbe sees civil society as the
associational life of citizens characterized by common interests, civil
and public purposes, and voluntary collective autonomous actions. It
also stretches to include all those associations that enable citizens to
participate voluntarily, freely and openly within the public realm, and
operate and function independent of and outside state and corporate
powers though, relating with them
x
Civil society acts as a buffer against the power of central governments
and in t hat capacity, encourages individuals to follow their own courses
without fear of intimidation from central governments.  The essence of
civil society is to advance the interest of a group of people with a
common socio -economic, political or cultural intere st with no objective
to capture political power or make profits but to provide and advance
the course of good governance and common good of its members.
xi
Uwen and Yeero, defined CSOs as the set of institutions and
organizations that interface between the s tate, business world and the
family. They further argue that civil society is the arena of un -coerced
collective actions around shared interest, and values. In theory the
institutions are different from the state, business and family world
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Abah Danladi
80
though in practi ce, the boundary between the state, family, market and
civil society are often complex, blurred and negotiated. They identified
civil society to include Nongovernmental Organizations (NGOs), Private
Voluntary Organizations (PVOs), people’s organizations, c ommunity-
based organizations (CBOs), civic clubs, and trade unions.
xii
Civil society organization refers to community organizations, activist
groups,trade unions, faith -based groups, cooperatives, as well as more
formal non -governmental organizations (NGOs) . Civil society is
therefore, in this paper taken to mean the third sector, the cumulus of
associational groups that is different from the state, business and
family; and that is geared towards the promotion of group goals and
objectives. Civil society prov ides the necessary social lubricants that
interface between the government and the citizens especially in the
promotion of good democratic governance.
xiii
Their responsibilities are
clearly defined and cut across social, political, economic and cultural
matrix of society. Civil society organization serves as a bridge between
the state and people in fostering ideals, transparency, speech, and
knowledge channelling.
Election Monitoring: Election is the organized processing of choosing
representatives of the people in a democratic society. Election is a
periodic process, carefully organized in accordance with laws in order
to determine individuals who will represent the people in certain
elective political positions.
xiv
In other words, the essence of an election
in a democratic society is to provide a periodic viable opportunity for
citizens to entrust authority and power to qualified individuals to
manage their affairs. In Nigeria, the body saddled with the conduct of
federal elections is the Independent Nationa l Electoral Commission
(INEC). In the spirit of federalism, there also exist State Independent
Electoral Commissions (SIECs) which conduct local government
elections across the thirty six states of Nigeria and the Federal Capital
Territory (FCT) Abuja.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Partnership for National Development:
81
Election monitoring is the systematic observation, guidance and
protection of elections to ensure that irregularities or misconducts are
curtailed. Election monitoring is the critical observance of the conducts
of both the citizens and the electoral manage ment bodies (INEC and
SIECs) to the stipulated strict rules and regulations governing elections
in a given country or state.  The essence of election monitoring is to
provide opportunities for domestic and international observers to
provide verdicts on the standard and conduct of elections. Election
monitors identify loopholes and areas of strengths in an election and
provide professional advice to actors in an election.
xv
Reports from
election monitors further help to determine how development partners
and donors can support EMBs to improve in future elections.  The
major contributions of election monitors is to ensure that the norms
and rules guiding elections are adhered to by all parties in an election
(such parties include voters, EMBs, political parties , security agencies,
and politicians).  Election monitoring is therefore, a powerful tool in
promoting democracy, political rights and good governance CSO
mobilize to engage in election observation for different reasons. These
include to engage citizens in the election process; deter fraud; expose
problems and irregularities; provide an accurate measure of the quality
of the election; and provide recommendations for improving the
process for the next election.
xvi
CSOs engagements in election
monitoring in the long term, helps ensure electoral integrity, and
strengthen civil society’s capacity to promote citizen participation,
engage in policy advocacy and foster governmental accountability
within and well beyond the election circle.
The role of Civil Society in Nigeria’s democratization process is
understood from the economic theory perspective. In a critical study of
civil society and the need to build an enabling environment, Anheier
avers that Economic theory provides a better analytical framework for
understanding State -Civil Society relations
xvii
.  To Anheier, economic
theory offers three answers to understanding the role of CSOs in a
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Abah Danladi
82
democratic state. These include: (1) substitute and supplement (2)
complement and (3) adversary
xviii
.  The first view is derived fro m the
public good perspective and holds that CSOs provide alternative public
good in areas or sectors where government services are in short
supply.
The complementary perspective of CSOs, Anheier observes, was
propounded by Salamon (2002) and holds that CS Os serve as active
agents in the implementation and delivery of public good. “CSOs are
typically the first line of defence in addressing emerging social
problems of many kinds but face resource insufficiencies over time
that, in turn can be compensated by government funding”
xix
. This view
sees civil society organizations as significant supporters to the state
through the provision of social, political and economic services which
the state may not be able to provide.  The theory also suggests that it
will be m ore efficient and effective for government to out -source or
“delegate” certain services to CSOs. The benefit of this approach is that
it reduces “cost of start -ups, generate more accurate cost data” and
boycott bureaucratic bottlenecks in service delivery among others
xx
.
Similarly, the theory that CSOs and government are adversaries is
supported by public good arguments. This emerges when the goals of
CSOs are remarkably different from the goals of a majoritarian
government. The social movement theory clear ly captures this
adversary notion of State – CSO relations.
From the above analysis, the relevance of this theoretical framework to
this study cannot be overemphasized. First, this theory helps to
understand the necessity of improved collaboration or partn ership
between CSO and NYSC especially in democratic development. Through
complementary roles, both CSOs and NYSC are well positioned to
synergize toward s improved service delivery and contribution to
national development through the involvement of NYSC me mbers in
election monitoring. Appreciating the mutual gains associated with
partnerships by both CSOs and NYSC will go a long way in blurring the
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Partnership for National Development:
83
adversary postures that had often underscores government-civil
society relations in the past. It is therefore, within this theoretical plank
that these arguments in this study are framed and issues analysed.
NYSC, CSOs and Elections Monitoring in Nigeria
NYSC, CSOs and INEC have remained critical partners in the conduct of
elections in Nigeria particularly since the return of liberal democracy
after close to three decades of military interregnum in year 1999.  The
essence of this partnership has been to cr eate a virile atmosphere for
the conduct and monitoring of elections that are less prone to violence.
In other words, NYSC-CSOs collaboration is aimed at the promotion and
conduct of credible elections that meet minimum best international
standards.  Besid es, INEC as the sole agency saddled with the task of
conducting election in Nigeria has faced the challenge of shortage of
manpower. As a result of this miasma, the election management body
reasoned, correctly too, that NYSC with its educated manpower shou ld
provide basic services in election management in Nigeria.
xxi
In the build up to the 2011 general elections, INEC with support from
several CSOs, which provided the funds for the training and payment of
allowances to Corps members, formalized its partners hip with the
Corps.  As a result of this collaboration, NYSC members were massively
trained and deployed as adhoc Staff in various Polling Stations across
the Seven Hundred and Seventy Four Local Government Areas of
Nigeria. They served as Polling Agents, Presiding Officers, Assistant
Presiding Officers and Observers for both domestic and international
election monitoring groups.
xxii
Some of the CSOs and Development Partners that have been actively
involved in election monitoring through direct deployment or
provision of funding opportunities to NYSC members in Nigeria,
especially since the return of democracy include; Centre for Democracy
and Development West Africa (CDD, Abuja), CLEEN foundation, Action
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Abah Danladi
84
Aid, JDPC, UNDP, EU, International Institute for Sustai nable
Development (IISD), USAID, YIAGA Africa, among others.  Apart from
these, there exist several Community Development Service (CDS)
groups within NYSC Scheme in which Corps members are expected to
join and participate actively during their service year . Some of the CDS
Groups include those dealing directly with good governance, Anti -
Corruption, Road Safety, Drug Free, Election and SDGs, among others
xxiii
The NYSC -CSOs partnership has had tremendous impact on election
conduct and monitoring through several m eans. First, it has
contributed positively to improving the standard and credibility of
elections in Nigeria in recent times. Successive reports from local and
international election observers particularly those of the European
Union (EU), African Union (A U) and the Economic Community of West
African State (ECOWAS ) have shown a steady improvement in the
conduct and credibility of elections since 1999.  They had often
commended INEC and acknowledged the supportive role of NYSC
members in providing relevant s ervices to electorates especially in
rural areas.
xxiv
Besides, NYSC -CSOs collaboration has yielded positive results in the
areas of mass orientation/ public enlightenment. Through advocacy,
NYSC-Community Development Service (CDS) groups have engaged in
massive rural based enlightenment on the need to maintain peace and
security before, during and after elections. CDS is mandatory for all
members. In this regards, ‘Corps members are expected to use one day
in a week for group CDS activities. They are not expe cted to attend
duties in their Places of Primary Assignment on CD days. Such days are
dedicated to the execution of projects and programs that will improve
living conditions of their host communities’.
CSOs especially community based CSOs have found CDS as veritable
partners in addressing the potpourris of socio -economic and political
challenges that have plagued Nigeria since the forth republic including
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Partnership for National Development:
85
elections. Through collaboration with CSOs, NYSC CDS platforms
provide forum for Corps members to exper iment with ideas and
translate them into concrete achievements thereby relying less on
foreign technology and encouraging the use of local raw materials in
execution of projects as well as on the job -training and experience for
Corps members. CDS also prov ides platforms for Corps members to
critically ‘explore the challenges of rural development and help
inculcate in Nigerian youths the ideals of leadership, endurance,
selflessness and community service as well as national service,
patriotism and creativity . It also complements the activities of
government at all levels in the strides towards national development’
xxv
Various CDS groups have equally been involved in voter education and
election observation especially in state and local government elections.
In Kogi State, for instance, the Justice, Peace and Development
Commission (JDPC) has been training and collaborating with NYSC
members in creating political and social awareness especially during
election seasons. Through consistent capacity training of Corp s
members by CSOs, host communities tend to benefit from the
knowledge and skills of NYSC members in the conduct of free, fair and
credible elections.  Corps members in the Service Delivery CDS Groups
are committed to attitudinal change -re-branding) throug h community
sensitization and awareness creation. The CDS group focuses on
educating rural dwellers on the need for free, fair and credible elections
among other essential services. They harp on the need for service
delivery and good work ethics. Some of t heir activities include training,
sensitization and group discussions on value reorientation.
Through enhanced capacity training by CSOs, Corps members are
empowered with requisite administrative and leadership skills on how
to coordinate and manage the co nduct of voters during elections.  With
the help of security agents such as Police, Army and Civil Defence, NYSC
members as either Assistant Presiding Officers (APOs) or Presiding
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Abah Danladi
86
Officers (P.O), explain basic rules and regulations guiding the voting
process in each polling station.  Besides, NYSC members are the
primary and legitimate custodians of both sensitive and non -sensitive
election materials in every polling station.  They are the eyes and ears
of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC ) and are
usually held accountable should anything go wrong with the voting
process.
xxvi
.
Through mutual collaboration with security agents and CSOs, NYSC
members are engaged in data collection and analyses especially on
election related issues like the time of voting, conducts of voters and
electoral officials, role of women voters and conditions of other special
voters particularly people with disability and media coverage of
elections. The Corps members are also saddled with the tasks of
writing post -election reports which help in shaping democratic
consolidation particularly in future elections.
Through the deployment of technologies especially the Smart Card
readers usually managed by Corps members, the collaboration between
CSOs and NYSC has largely pro moted the integrity of elections in
Nigeria thereby curtailing the incidences of voter frauds. Since the
2011 general elections, the Smart Card Reader has become an
indispensable component of the electoral process. Apart from the fact
that Corps members ar e usually trained on the use of Smart Cards
Readers by INEC in collaboration with CSOs and development partners,
Corps members are also imbued with skills in conveying electoral
materials to and fro and announcing election results in polling stations.
Through this process, they help to monitor and report election results
in each station thereby averting violence arising from contestations
over election results.  Through this medium, it can be seen that the
synergy between NYSC and CSOs has consistently prom oted electoral
credibility through unfettered monitoring of elections.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Partnership for National Development:
87
NYSC, CSOs and Election Monitoring: Challenges and way forward
Although the collaboration between NYSC, CSOs and INEC has yielded
the desired positive results especially in deepening democracy,
development and rural transformation, there exist some challenges
militating against overall, seamless sustainable partnership.  This
section isolates and analyses the dimensions of these challenges and
recommend policy options for deepening ci vil society -government
relation through the lens of the NYSC.
There is a yawning gap in the entire gamut of state -civil society relation
in Nigeria which continues to undermine the entire civil society
relations in Nigeria. The impact of this fractious rel ations negatively
impinge also on NYSC-CSOs relations. The Nigerian state often sees civil
society organizations as adversaries and not partners in progress. As a
result of this, government agencies are often cautious of the kind of
collaborations they enter into with CSOs.
Beyond the hostile operational environment for CSOs in Nigeria,
Insecurity is another challenge facing NYSC -CSOs partnership in
election monitoring in contemporary Nigeria.  Since the Boko Haram
onslaught in Nigeria in 2009 coupled with increased ethno -religious
violence, armed banditry, farmer -herders conflicts, and militancy, both
NYSC and CSOs including INEC have faced serious security challenges
in the business of election monitoring and management.  Some Corps
members on election du ties lost their lives while others were
kidnapped. This constitutes an albatross to effective participation of
Corps members in CSO driven election monitoring or observations.
xxvii
For instance, in the build up to the 2019 general elections in Nigeria,
several parts of Katsina state were under siege by bandits.
The Executive Governor of the state, Mallam Aminu Bello Masari
publicly admitted that his state could not guarantee the safety of INEC
and NYSC officials on election duties due to the notorious activitie s of
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Abah Danladi
88
armed bandits. He claimed that about eight (8) Local Government
Areas were under severe attacks by armed bandits. These local
government areas include; Jibia, Batsari, Safana, Dan -Musa, Faskari,
Sabuwa, Dandume, Kankara and parts of Kafur, Masari Loca l
Government Area s. The bandits in Katsina operates largely from the
Rugu forest which is the second largest forest in Northern Nigeria after
the notorious, Boko Haram infested Sambisa forest. Rugu forest cuts
across the Niger Republic, Katsina and parts o f Kaduna States and ha s
become a safe haven for criminal elements. Since 2019, the security
landscape of Katsina had worsened.
xxviii
Implication of the above on NYSC -CSOs relations especially election
monitoring is that effective election monitoring cannot occur in areas
occupied by bandits and terrorist groups. In the absence of credible
election monitors, most elections become mere ri tuals or shambolic
lacking in accountability and transparency.  The high spate of election
violence continues to dampen CSO -NYSC collaboration in election
monitoring. For instance, a case in point is the dastardly attacks of
NYSC members in Bauchi in 2011 where nine Corps members were
killed following the post -election violence that engulfed some northern
states. The nineserving Corps members and their state origin were
Adewumi Seun (Ekiti), Teidi Tosin (Kogi), Adowei Elliot (Bayelsa),
Okpokiri Obinna (Abia), Gbenjo Ayotunde (Osun), Ukeoma Chibuzor
(Imo), Nwanzema Chukwuonyerem (Imo), Adeniji Jehleel (Osun),
Akonyi Sule (Kogi)
xxix
. As a corollary, Boko Haram insurgency which has
led to the displacement of over 2.4 million people in the Lake Chad
Basin with over 494 ,000 internally displaced persons in Cameroon,
Chad and Niger Republics has further constitute a major challenge to
the involvement of NYSC -CSOs in election monitoring in the North
eastern states of Nigeria.
Finance is another major challenge mil itating against deeper,
sustainable collaboration between NYSC and CSOs in election
monitoring. Most local CSOs do not often have adequate financial base
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Partnership for National Development:
89
to effectively train Corps members for sustainable election observation.
Instead, what is obtainable h ad often been, an inchoate, adhoc, short
term training of Corps members. These trainees are usually posted to
unfamiliar terrain without adequate facilities. This unsavoury scenario
had led to controversies and possible absentee observations which do
not o ften reflect the reality of the elections thereby leading some
analysts to question the merit of reports of election observers in
Nigeria.
Addressing these challenges require s concerted , multi -layered inter -
agency collaborations. Government at levels must intensify efforts to
promote national security through a decentralized policing, improved
funding of police, NYSC and INEC. This is important to ensure that
adequate manpower and infrastructural facilities are provided to
enhance effective and efficient m anagement of elections devoid of
frauds and violence.  Furthermore, the incessant attacks of CSOs
through excessive, burdensome regulations/laws should be
discontinued. This is important in order to ensure that donors and local
CSOs do not face unnecessary administrative and legislative
bottlenecks in funding and executing projects within and outside the
NYSC in Nigeria.
Conclusion
Despite the challenges of finance and insecurity which threaten
sustainable NYSC -CSOs collaborations in election monitoring,
appreciable modicum of achievements have been achieved in
deepening democratic consolidation through election monitoring.  Due
to the changing dynamics of the Nigerian state and its multifaceted
national development challenges, the functions and engagement of
NYSC in nation -building project s have continued to evolve.  NYSC
represents a near -perfect agency that had, over the years successfully
partnered/collaborated with Civil Society Organizations (CSOs) to
promote democracy through election monitoring, you th empowerment
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Abah Danladi
90
development and national unity . The promotion of sustainable
democratization process by NYSC and CSOs through involvement in
election monitoring and administration should be sustained and
improved through more active collaboration with both local and
international CSOs. NYSC members should be consistently trained and
empowered to conduct and monitor federal and local government
elections across Nigeria.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Partnership for National Development:
91
Endnotes
i
Enegwea, Gregory and Gabriel Umoden (1993). NYSC: Twenty Years of
National Service. Abuja: NYSC Directorate
ii
Obadare, E. (2010): Statism, Youth and Civic Imagination: A critical
Study of the National Youth Service Programme in Nigeria,
CODESRIA Monograph Series, Council for the Development of
Social Science Research in Africa. Dakar: CODESRIA.
iii
Paul Obi -Ani, Post-Civil Political and Economic Reconstruction of
Igboland, 1970-1983, Enugu: Mikon Press, 2009
iv
Raimi, L. and Alao, O. (2011): Evaluation of the economics (cost and
benefits) of National Youth Service Corps for sustainable
development in Nigeria, Humanomics, Vol. 27(4), 270-281
v
Raimi, L. and Alao, O. (2011): Evaluation of the economics (cost and
benefits)…p52
vi
Obadare, E. (2010): Statism, Youth and Civic Imagination: A critical
Study of the…p.8
vii
Dereck Osadere Arubayi (2015), Youth in Development:
Understanding the Contributions of the National Youth Service
Corps (NYSC) to Nigeria’s National Development , A thesis
submitted to the University of Manchester on Degree of Do ctor of
Philosophy in Development Policy and Management in the
Faculty of Humanities
viii
Traore, William F, 2015. Reflection on Civil Society in Ivory Coast:
Issues, Institutional Challenges and Post Crisis Sensitivities
in West Africa Civil Society Institute(WACSI) , 2015, Civil
Society and Develo pment in West Africa: Regional Perspective,
Accra, Ghana.
ix
Chukwuma, Innocent, 2005. Government –Civil Society Partnership in
Nigeria: Problems and Prospects, Paper presented at
Special Retreat on Government- Civil Society Partnership in
Nigeria, Kaduna, Nigeria, September 12-15.
x
Ikelegbe, Ovuoronye Augustine. 2013. The State and Civil Society
Partnership in Nigeria: Towards a partnership for su stainable
development. Benin-City, Nigeria:CPED Monograph.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Abah Danladi
92
xi
Ghaus-Pasha, A. (2004), The Role of Civil Society in Organization in
Governance, Paper Presented at the Global Forum on
Reinventing Government Towards Participatory and Transparent
Governance, Seoul, May 24-27
xii
Uwen, E  & Yero, A.(2009) Strengthening Civil Society Organizations -
Government Partnership in Nigeria, International NGO Journal ,
4(9)
xiii
Danladi. A and Tanko Adihikon, Civil Society and Democratic
Consolidation in Nigeria’s Fourth Republic, ISTR Third Regional
Conference  Paper, John Hopkins University, Baltimore,
Maryland. 2016.
xiv
Member, George -Genyi (2016), Democratization and the Survival of
the Nigerian Project in Member -George-Genyi (ed), The
National Question and Development in Nigeri a, Abuja:
Donafrique Publishers
xv
Adigun, A. & Adebanwi,W. (2011), Civil Society Organizations and
Africa’s Transformation in the 21
st
Century,  in Solomon Oladele
Akinboye (ed), Perspectives on African Crises. Challenges of
Socio-Political and Economic Tra nsformation in the 21
st
Century,
Ibadan: Spectrum Books
xvi
Danladi. A and Tanko Adihikon, Civil Society and Democratic
Consolidation in Nigeria’s Fourth Republic, ISTR Third Regional
Conference  Paper, John Hopkins University, Baltimore,
Maryland. 2016.
xvii
Anheier, Helmut K. 2017. “Civil Society Challenged: towards an
enabling policy environment.” Economics Discussion Paper, no.
45, Kiel Institute for the World Economy.
http://www.economics-ejournal.org/economics/
discussionpapers/2017-45
xviii
Anheier, Helmut K. 2017. “Civil Society Challenged: towards an
enabling policy…p8
xix
Anheier, Helmut K. 2017. “Civil Society Challenged: towards an
enabling policy…P.7
xx
Anheier, Helmut K. 2017. “Civil Society Challenged: towards an
enabling policy…p7
xxi
NYSC 2012 Bulletin, Ondo State, Akure. P.26
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Partnership for National Development:
93
xxii
DereckOsadereArubayi (2015), Youth in Development:
Understanding the Contributions…P.30
xxiii
Dereck Osadere Arubayi (2015), Youth in Development:
Understanding the Contributions…pp6-40
xxiv
Online Oral interview with Pascal Akueze, 2012 CLO, NYSC, Odigbo,
LGA, Ondo State, 10/02/2021, 41 yrs.
xxv
Obadare, E. (2010): Statism, Youth and Civic Imagination: A critical
Study of the…pp8-20
xxvi
Oral interview with Ugochukcwu Okoye, ex-NYSC Corps member
who conducted the 2012 Governorship election in Ondo State.
xxvii
Iyizoba, William Okechukwu (1982). Nigerian Youth Service Corps:
An Evaluation of an Attempt to Foster National Unity in the Face
of Ethnic Diversity. PhD Dissertation, Rutgers University
xxviii
Danladi,A.2019, Nigeria Military and the Media in an era of counter
insurgency operation: the need for synergy. Modern Ghana
Newspaper, available online:
https://www.modernghana.com/news/908039/nigeria-
military-and-the-media-in-an-era-of-counter-insurgen.html, 8th
January,
xxix
Sani Tukur, ‘NYSC members killed in Bauchi, Premium Times,
December, 31 2012.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Emmanuel Osewe Akubor
94
7
The Welfare of Corps Members and Staff during
Election Duties
Emmanuel Osewe Akubor
Introduction
It has been argued and established that the history of Elections in
Nigeria has not been rosy as witnessed in most parts of the developed
world. In the case of Nigeria, the general thinking was that after long
period of military dictatorship in Nigeria, th e advent of democratic rule
through the conduct of periodic elections would bring with it renewed
hope of self -dignity, respect for human rights, constitutionalism and
improved quality of government for the Nigerian demos. However,
political events in the last decade (since 1999) have shown that rather
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Welfare of Corps Member and Staff during Election Duties
95
than liberating the people that voted them into power through the
ballot boxes, activities of politicians , political parties and their cohorts
(militicians) seems to reaffirmed that the future of the country and her
citizens (especially the youths and resources) have been hijacked,
through what has come to be known as Elite Consensus in the Nigerian
political circle
1
. This has been exhibited in the wide spread imposition
of unpopular candidates on the people b y a tiny but power political
clique, often followed by high class rigging of  elections, electoral
violence and killings, as well as general state of insecurity
2
. Thus,
instead of succour, Civilian dictatorship, democratic authoritarianism,
low or non -existent quality of government became the rule rather than
the exception. This, of course, dashed the hope and expectations of the
Nigerian people in elections and by extension, in the democratic rule.
It is important to state from the onset the concept of welfare used in
this document goes beyond just the health, happiness and fortune of
the group as considered in monetary term s. It should be considered as
the total statutory procedure or social efforts designed to promote the
basic physical and material well-being of people engaged by the INEC in
her line of duty. This is considered thus when seen in the light of the
fact that as ad hoc staff, these individuals do not really have a long term
benefit (pension or gratuity) from INEC and as such in case of
eventuality in the course of discharge of duty they and other members
of their families especially dependants are left unchartered for.
1
Akubor, E. Osewe (2020)  Elections and cracks in elite consensus, Olaniyi R (ed),
Two Decades of Democracy in Nigeria: Nigeria since 1999, University Press,
Ibadan (In Press).
2
Akubor E .Osewe, (2013), Nigeria and the quest for credible Election: Lessons
from the 2011 National Voters’ Registration Exercise, in ChiomaUzoho et al , The
Dignity of a French Teacher, Festschrift in Honour of Prof. Julie Agbasiere, Fab
Educational Books Awka
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Emmanuel Osewe Akubor
96
Historical Background to the conduct of Elections in Nigeria
As obtained in countries of the world, the Nigerian state sin ce
independence has conducted series of elections to elect their leaders.
This is done under the guidance of an organised and legally backed up
body. The electoral bodies had changed since 1983 from Federal
Electoral Commission (FEDECO) to National Elector al Commission
(NEC) to INEC. In spite of appointing eminent jurists and supposedly
credible people as heads of these bodies, the elections most of the time
had been flawed. But that is not to say that there had not been free, fair
and peacefully conducted elections in Nigeria. The generally acceptable
and most peaceful elections conducted in Nigeria were those held in
1959, 1979, 1993 and 1999, while the most chaotic, violent and
disputed elections were those in 1964 and 1983
3
.
Scholars have argued that the 2003 and 2007 elections, three elections
conducted during this period of ten years of Nigeria’s democracy have
been lampooned by many critics as far from free and fair. In fact, the
election of April 2007, conducted by the existing electoral body,
Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) under the
leadership of Maurice Iwu has been described as the worst election
ever held in this country as a result of indescribable irregularities
which marred the elections. Analysts have argued that what prob ably
came close to what could be described as the freest and fairest election
in the history of Nigeria was the June 12, 1993 election that was
annulled by General Ibrahim Babangida. Unfortunately, the country
was deprived of the opportunity of taking adva ntage of this successful
achievement to launch itself on the road to true democracy by a greedy
and rabid political and military class interested in perpetuating itself in
power. The vital lesson from this experience is that a sound electoral
3
Siddique A (nd), The June 12 Presidential Election was neither free nor
fair. Centre for Democratic Development Research and Training
(CEDDERT) Occasional Publication
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Welfare of Corps Member and Staff during Election Duties
97
process is de pendent on having a solid democratic infrastructure in
place and vice versa
4
. This depends largely on engaging the services of
the best of brains into working and making adequate preparations for
upholding the basic tenets of  free and fair elections in Nigeria.
Independent N ational Electoral Commission, Reforming Election
and Youths Involvement
Before now, it has always been thought that election is just about
voting and the politicians. The roles of the youth as the future leaders
have been relegated to the background
5
. However, the politicians
having realised the potentials in these young minds with strength and
vigour have often employed them as thugs, ballot box snatchers and
agents of confusion at polling booths
6
. It is probably a r ealization of this
that made the INEC to have a rethink on how to make young minds put
their strength, talents and brains into the process of repositioning the
nation’s electoral system.
The above is made clear as it is in the statutory mandate of the
Commission, as set out in the Electoral Act 2010, in which the INEC is
duty bound to undertake effective voter and civic education. In this way,
INEC has over the period embarked on three key activities
7
. In the first
place, INEC has established civic educatio n clubs in high schools. This
activity was aimed at educating young people who are mainly first time
4
Akubor, E. Osewe,  “Campaigns and Electioneering: Reflecting on the 2015
General Election s in Nigeria.” Independent National Electoral Commission
(INEC), Abuja, Nigeria
5
Akubor E. Osewe ( 2014), From Criminal Politics to Full Blown Terrorism in
Nigeria: A Historical Perspective; Chibuzo N. Nwoke and OgabaOche,
Contemporary Challenges in Nigeri a, Africa and the World, The Nigerian Institute
of International Affairs,  Lagos, Pp 91 -130.
6
Akubor E .Osewe, (2011),Youths and Electoral Violence in Nigeria: A Historical
Approach; in Anyanwu, U.D,(2011) The Integrated International Journal of History
and Strategic Studies, Vol. 1, No. I, June.The Integrated Academic Systems,
Anambra, Nigeria.Pp 1 -24
7
Section 2 of the Electoral Act 2010 As Amended
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Emmanuel Osewe Akubor
98
voters on their voting rights and the imperatives of civic participation
in nation building. Secondly, in2014, INEC introduced a new initiative
tagged INEC Youth Ambassadors. In conjunction with youth
organizations like the Youth Initiative for Advocacy, Growth &
Advancement (YIAGA), and the commission identified young celebrities
and influencers as youth ambassadors tasked with the responsibility of
conducting voter education
8
. The ambassadors utilized their platforms
and existing relations with youth to disseminate voter education and
messages of non -violence. Thirdly, social media has been increasingly
used by INEC to communicate with youth. In the context of its Citizens
Contact Centre for voter education, incident reports and complaints
resolution, INEC has established social media channels – especially
twitter, Facebook – in addition to ´traditional media platforms like
radio and television,´ dedicated hotlines and the INEC’s website. In
addition, INEC has also launched the ‘MyINEC’ mobile app to enhance
access to election information by young voters
9
.
Available evidence sh ows that INEC’s youth engagement is two -
pronged i.e promoting youth participation in voting and mainstreaming
youth in its organisational setup. In terms of voter registration , INEC
engages in awareness creation activities to mobilize unregistered
voters t o register and participate in the electoral process. The
commission also enlightens young voters – especially students – on
inter-state transfer of voter register. As mentioned above, the voter
registration exercise is managed by members of the NYSC who
themselves are above 30 years of age
10
.
Other relevant activities include awareness creation to encourage mass
participation of younger population in the electoral process through
8
https://aceproject.org/ace -en/topics/em/elections -and-youth/the-case-of-nigeria
9
Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) National Pre -election Youth
Summit Report, January 2015
10
Independent National Electoral Commission, Activity Report 2011 -2014
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Welfare of Corps Member and Staff during Election Duties
99
consultations, training and campaign monitoring. The area of emphasis
has been on hosting several consultative town hall meetings and
national summit with young people. This is with the aim of engaging
them in electoral activities. As far as training is concerned , the
commission trains NYSC members that have been recruited as INEC ad
hoc staff on the rudiments of election management especially
concerning voter registration and polling station services. The
commission also trains duly accredited civil society groups on election
observation.  The INEC is responsible for campaign monit oring and
more specifically for ensuring compliance with campaign finance laws.
Given that youth candidates are economically disadvantaged, INEC’s
role in leveling the playing field contributes indirectly to enhance the
chances of the emergence of youth ca ndidates for active participation
in the electoral process
11
.
INEC and National Youth Service Corps:  Partners   in National
Election and Development
As noted in the activities of INEC concerning the involvement o f youth
Corps members in the conduct of elections, the Commission has trained
NYSC members for effective election monitoring and supervision. For a
meaningful discourse on how the NYSC became a partner in progress
with INEC, there is the need to have a brief background to the
development of the Scheme. This becomes necessary in the light of the
fact that NYSC was the needed partner for INEC if the integrity of
elections and electoral conducts must be credible.
Historically, it has been established that the NYSC Scheme was created
in a bid to reco nstruct, reconcile and rebuild the country after the
Nigerian Civil war. The unfortunate antecedents in our national history
gave impetus to the establishment of the National Youth Service Corps
by decree No.24 of 22nd May 1973 which stated that the " NYSC is
being established with a view to the proper encouragement and
11
https://aceproject.org/ace -en/topics/em/elections -and-youth/the-case-of-nigeria
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Emmanuel Osewe Akubor
100
development of common ties among the youths of Nigeria and the
promotion of national unity".
Nigeria and the need for Free, Credible and Fair Elections:
Considering the Role of Corps Members and Staff
An analysis of the issue of elections in Nigeria shows that as a result of
shortage in man power over the years, the Independent National
Electoral Commission has from time to time employed the service of ad
hoc staff to perform various function s during elections. However, with
the need and her quest for neutrality and free and fair elections, the
Electoral body decided to seek the inclusion of Corps members in the
list of her ad hoc staff. This was particularly in the 2007 General
elections which were manifestly the worst in Nigerian electoral history.
The election was characterized by massive rigging, violence and voter
intimidation. Both international and domestic observers noted that the
election fell short of international standards for election conduct. It was
this that therefore called for the need to inject into the system,
elements of credibility. Observers saw the inclusion of members of the
NYSC as giving credence to the program as they could be held
accountable. This although contained in the MoU, has also been
emphasized by Ibrahim, Jibrin and Garuba, D (2008) thus:
In the past, ad hoc staffs were drawn from government
institutions and private individuals who had no definite
records or verifiable addresses. The use of ad hoc staff
was ch aracterized by various electoral malfeasance
which undermined the integrity of elections. Defaulting
ad hoc election officials could not be held accountable
due to poor documentation and unverif iable addresses.
Following the conduct of the 2007 General elections,
INEC resolved to engage young people under the NYSC
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Welfare of Corps Member and Staff during Election Duties
101
Scheme in the conduct of by -elections and re -
run/supplementary elections
12
.
The move therefore to include Corps members according to sources,
although began officially during the period towards the February 2007
elections (however, the first engagement of NYSC members as polling
clerks in the conduct of elections began in 2008) an d as a result a sort
of partnership was entered into between Independent National
Electoral Commission and National Youth Service Corps and Staff. This
alliances was not surprising when seen in the light of the fact that  this
tallies with the functions ou tlined in subsection 3 of the National Youth
Service Corps  regulations, which states thus:
the service Corps shall ensure — (a) the equitable
distribution of members of the service Corps and the
effective utilisation of their skills in areas of national
needs; (b) that as far as possible, Nigerian youths are
assigned to jobs in States other than their States of
origin; (c) that such group of Nigerian youths assigned
to work together is representative of Nigeria as far as
possible; (d) that the Nigerian yout hs are exposed to
the modes of living of the people in different parts of
Nigeria; (e) that the Nigerian youths are encouraged to
eschew religious intolerance by accommodating
religious differences; (f) that members of the service
Corps are encouraged to s eek at the end of their one
year national service, career employment all over
Nigeria, thus, promoting the free movement of labour;
(g) that employers are induced partly through their
experience with members of the service Corps to
employ more readily and on a permanent basis,
12
Ibrahim, Jibrin and Garuba, D. Governance and Institution -Building in Nigeria:
A Study of the Independent National Electoral Commission  (Abuja: Center for
Democracy and Development, 2008)
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Emmanuel Osewe Akubor
102
qualified Nigerians, irrespective of their States of
origin.
It was in line with the above that the Independent National Electoral
Commission observed that it was necessary to have the National Youth
Service Corps members and staff infused into the monitoring of
elections in the country. Analysts have observed and specifically noted
thus:
Some of the reasons why INEC thought it appropriate
to involve Corps members to play vital roles in
elections include: a) Intellectual capacity of Corps
members. Being graduates of higher institutions, Corps
members are easily trainable which makes them assets
to partner with. b) The deployment of Corps members
to all the nooks and crannies of the country makes the
youth Corps members particularly su itable for election
duties. The geographical spread in the posting policy of
the Scheme makes for Corps members to be posted
evenly. c) Since Corps members are posted outside
their states and geopolitical zones, there is the
likelihood that they would be n eutral and nonpartisan.
Similarly, the nationalistic outlook infused in the Corps
members during Orientation course makes them ready
for this type of engagement. d) Internal disciplinary
mechanism as enshrined in the NYSC byelaws makes
sanctioning of Corps members involved in electoral
fraud easy. The NYSC bye -laws section 4(i) prohibits
Corps members from taking part in partisan politics.
NYSC bye-laws (2001), the youth service has earned for
itself, a place in the hearts and minds of the generality
of the citizenry. The Scheme and the youths engaged in
it are generally trusted by the Scheme’s beneficiary
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Welfare of Corps Member and Staff during Election Duties
103
communities. This goodwill has rubbed off on all
elections Corps members participated in
13
.
Realizing the above and as a way of giving this a sort of legal backing, a
memorandum of understanding  was signed between the two bodies in
2010. This agreement was reviewed and formalised in 2013. NYSC
(2014). Corps members are not under any compulsion to partake in the
elections. The involvement of the youth Corps members in actual
elections began with their participation as polling clerks in the conduct
of Kogi State Governorship re -run election held on Saturday, 29th
March, 2008. NYSC (2015). The success of this first involvement led to
further engagement of Corp s members in the conduct of bye - elections,
re-run and supplementary elections “which were also adjudged
satisfactory”. MoU (2013), the following is the statistics of the
participation of Corps members in elections since 2009.
13
This action is aimed to bring about unity in the country and to help youths
appreciate other ethnic groups. There is an "Orientation" period of approximately
three weeks spent in a camp away from family and friends. There is also a "passing
out ceremony" at the end of the year and primary assignment followed by one
month of vacation. The program has also helped in creating entry level jobs for a
lot of Nigerian youth. An NYSC forum dedicated to the NYSC members was
recently built to bridge the gap amongst members serving across Nigeria and also
an avenue for corpers to share job information and career resources as well as
getting loans from the National Directorate Of Employment.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Emmanuel Osewe Akubor
104
Table 7.1: Corps members involvement in Elections between 2008
and 2011
14
S/No Date Place /State Type of
Election
No. of
Corps
Member
Remar
k
1. 29TH,
March,
2008
Kogi state Governorship
Re-run
5, 851 Success
ful
2. 29th April,
2008
Adamawa
state
Governorship
Re-run
5, 727 Success
ful
3. 19th April,
2008
Maru North,
Zamfara
state
Bye Election 177 Success
ful
4. 24th May,
2008
Sokoto state Governorship
Bye Election
3,035 6 Success
ful
5. 24th May,
2008
Bayelsa
state
Governorship
Bye Election
1,805 Success
ful
6. 7 th June,
2008
Nasarawa
state
Bye Elections
into
Lafia/Obi
Federal
Constituency
447 Success
ful
7. 23rd
August,
2008
Cross River
state
Governorship
Bye Election
2265 Success
ful
8. 24th
January,
2009
Anambra
State
Anambra
South
Senatorial
Re-run
1619 Success
ful
14
Table constructed by author based on information gathered from various sources
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Welfare of Corps Member and Staff during Election Duties
105
9. 28
th
Februar
y, 2009
Benue state Guma South
Constituency
160 Success
ful
10. 7th March,
2009
Plateau state Wampang
South
Constituency,
Rerun
124 Success
ful
11. 14th March,
2009
Batsari
Constituency
Re run
173 Success
ful
12. 25th June,
2009
Ekiti state Governorship
Rerun
806 Success
ful
13. 20th June,
2009
Katsina Malumfashi
State
Constituency
Bye Election
21 Success
ful
14. 15th
August,
2009
Ekiti state Ekiti North
Senatorial
Bye Election
714 Success
ful
15. 17th
October,
2009
Bauchi state Gamawa
State
Constituency
Bye Election
177 Success
ful
16. 5th
December,
2009
Osun state Osun East
Senatorial
Bye Election
1217 Success
ful
17. 19th
December,2
009
Kebbi state Kebbi Central
Senatorial
Bye Election
892 Success
ful
18. 5th
February,
2010
Anambra
state
Governorship
Election
, 4658 Success
ful
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Emmanuel Osewe Akubor
106
19. 10th April,
2010
Abuja FCT Area
Council
Election
2400 Success
ful
20. 15th
January-5th
February,
2011
Nationwide 2011
Elections
Voters’
Registration
Success
ful
21. April 2011 Nationwide April 2011
General
Elections
185, 000 Success
ful
A critical analysis of the participation of Corps -members from the
period the MoU was signed shows that these youths have become so
involved that they have gradually mastered the act of the duty. When it
started, there was so much scepticism and as such th e participation
was low beginning with about 5000 Corps -members. However with
time and confidence of their performance, their participation increased
with much more responsibility such that at the time of the 2011
General election, the Scheme could supply as much as well over one
hundred and eighty thousand (180,000) in just less than ten years. This
is an indication of the success of the collaboration. An approximate 375,
268NYSC members have been engaged as election officials between
2008 and 2015 electio n cycles. For the 2015 elections, 186,000
interested Corps members applied to be election ad hoc staff at the
close of the registration. Youth Corps members were mainly employed
in the area of Presiding Officers and Assistant Presiding Officers.
Over the years, due to patriotism and professional conduct exhibited by
the Corps members , involved in the managing of polling unit s, it has
been discovered that their conduct has improved the integrity of the
conduct of the elections. This is exemplified with the acceptability of
electoral outcome and decline in the number of post -election litigation.
For example, while there were 1290 petitions in 2007 elections, there
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Welfare of Corps Member and Staff during Election Duties
107
was a sharp decline in 2011,  with 732 petitions’ and in 2015 , it fell to
611 petitions
15
. The participation of these young men have been
acknowledge and applauded by domestic and international observers
as well as INEC.
The Independent National Electoral Commission   and   Plight of
Corps Members on election duties.
One of the broad objectives of the NYSC is to provide manpower for
national development. Corps members
16
are however expected to mix
with the people of other ethnic groups , social and family backgrounds,
to learn the culture of the host communities. It is in view of the above,
that t he program serves as a training ground for Corps -members to
gain the much needed knowledge that would integrate them into the
larger society.
The involvement of Corps members in the conduct of elections is
however associated with security issues that must be tackled to
guarantee the safety of lives and properties of members of the National
Youth Service Corps (NYSC) . In 2011 for instance nine serving Corps
members (CMs), all young men, were killed by rioters in Bauchi State
following the April 16, 2011 presidential election. The particulars of the
deceased are represented thus:
15
European Union Election Observation Mission Report, 2011, see also
https://aceproject.org/ace -en/topics/em/elections -and -youth/the -case -of -nigeria
16
Since 1973 graduates of universities and later Polytechnics have been required to
take part in the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) program for one year. This
is k nown as national service year. "Corp" members are posted to cities far from
their city of origin.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Emmanuel Osewe Akubor
108
Table 7.2: Records of Corps Members o n INEC Duty In Bauchi,
2011
S/No Name State of
Origin
Area of
Specialization
State of
Primary
Assignment
1 Teidi Tosin
Olawale
Osun BSc Computer
Science
Bauchi
2 Nkwazema
Anslem C.
Imo HND Electrical
Electronic
Engineering
Bauchi
3 Okpokiri Obinna
Michael
Abia BSc
Environmental
Management
Bauchi
Adowei Elliot Bayelsa BSc Computer
Science
Bauchi
Adewunmi Seun
Paul
Ekiti BSc, Social
Sciences
Bauchi
Adeniji Kehinde
Jehleel
Osun BSc Banking &
Finance
Bauchi
Gbenjo Ebenezer
Ayotunde
Osun BSc, Education
Economics
Bauchi
Ukeoma
Ikechukwu
Chibuzor
Imo BSc Medical
Microbiology
Bauchi
Akonyi Ibrahim
Sule
Kogi HND Business
Administration
Bauchi
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Welfare of Corps Member and Staff during Election Duties
109
Independent National Electoral Commission and the Welfare of
Corps-Members during and After Election
In line with the MoU between NYSC and INEC, it was the responsibility of
INEC to take care of the welfare of Corps members as INEC ad hoc staff
during the period the elections and other relevant assignments.Although,
the NYSC members voluntarily sign up to participate in election
administration, different categories of allowances are provided byINEC to
cover costs incurred during training and elections. Cumulatively, each NYSC
member is entitled to $179 as INEC standard payment for election officers
17
.
In line with conventional practice, all election officials are duly insured by
the electoral commission throughout the period of their engagement.   In
terms of discipline and accountability, all Corps members engaged in
electoral duties are subject to the directive, control and supervision of both
NYSC and the electoral commission during the timeline of the engagement.
The Corps members are also bound by the code of conduct for election
officials and the NYSC by-laws.
According to a report in 2019, Mrs.AdenikeAdeyemi, the Scheme’s Director
of Press and Public Relations,..."the NYSC,  is disturbed by the uninspiring
pictures and tales of woes experienced by many Corps members assigned
for the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, duties in several
states across the country on the eve of the postponedGeneralelections. This
tales of woes by the Corps members have been confirmed as true situation
report which is at variance with the spirit of the Memorandum of
Understanding (MoU) between INEC and the Scheme.
Decrying the dangers Corps-members were exposed to in the course of
election monitoring, she said in part:
“While these incidents have been adduced to the logistic
challenges which the INEC experienced, the NYSC wishes
17
INEC Standard Payment for Election Officers. See document
http://www.inecnigeria.org/wp content/uploads/2014/08/
INEC-STANDARD -PAYMENT -FOR-ELECTION -OFFICERS2 .pdf,  INEC and
NYSC, Memorandum of Understanding, November 2010
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Emmanuel Osewe Akubor
110
to note that the unpleasant occurrences are totally at
variance with the spirit of our MoU with INEC… .
“Therefore, we are currently engaged in discussion with
INEC Management towards ensuring that these and all
other sundry issues bordering on the welfare and security
of Corps members are quickly addressed and redressed
before the rescheduled elections".
The above statement by Mrs. Adenike Adeyemi, the Scheme’s Director of
Press and Public Relations. The NYSC, was even more disturbed when it
considered thatin the build up to the participation of Corps members as ad-
hoc electoral staff, the then Director-General of the NYSC, Major General SZ
Kazaure and members of Management embarked on nationwide tour to
meet with INEC State officials, heads of security agencies, community and
opinion leaders to obtain assurances on the welfareand security of Corps
members before, during and after the elections
18
.
Closely related to this is the issue of accommodation for Corps members on
INEC assignments.It is important to make adequate arrangements in this
regard to ensure to ensure the safety of Corps members and the credibility
of the elections.
There is also the need for INEC to make available life insurance policy for
Corps members. This is to say that the government should step up whatever
plans it has to provide life insurance cover for thousands ofCorps members
deployed for INEC functions.
There is also the need to strengthenarrangement with the National Health
Insurance Scheme to get Corps members registeredas beneficiaries ofthe
Scheme.
18
https://cyber3x.wordpress.com/2019/02/19/nysc -knocks-inec -over -Corps-
members-welfare-challenges , see also
https://cyber3x.wordpress.com/2019/02/19/postponed -polls-we-were-treated-as-
slaves-nysc-members
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Welfare of Corps Member and Staff during Election Duties
111
Conclusion
From the discourse it is clear that despite the signing of MoU by INEC
with NYSC, there are still lacuna that needs to be addressed. As earlier
noted, Corps members and staff welfare should go beyond just
monetary gratification. This becomes necessary based on the fact that
as ad hoc st aff, these individuals do not really have a long term benefit
(pension or gratuity) from INEC and as such in case of death, disability
or any fatal injuries sustained in t he line of duty would be a welcome
development.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Emmanuel Osewe Akubor
112
References
Akinremi Rebecca, (2019), RIP Ibrahim …NYSC , Nigerians Mourns
Corps member who died while on election duty, international
centre for investigation report icir, 12 march, 2019.
Akubor E .Osewe, (2011),Youths and Electoral Violence in Nigeria: A
Historical Approach ; in Anyanwu, U.D,(2011) The Integrated
International Journal of History and Strategic Studies, Vol. 1, No.
I, June.The Integrated Academic Systems, Anambra, Nigeria.
Akubor E .Osewe, (2013), Nigeria and the quest for credible Election:
Lessons from the 20 11 National Voters’ Registration Exercise,
in ChiomaUzoho et al , The Dignity of a French Teacher,
Festschrift in Honour of Prof. Julie Agbasiere, Fab Educational
Books Awka
Akubor E. Osewe ( 2014), From Criminal Politics to Full Blown
Terrorism in Nigeria : A Historical Perspective; Chibuzo N.
Nwoke and OgabaOche, Contemporary Challenges in Nigeria,
Africa and the World, The Nigerian Institute of International
Affairs,  Lagos.
Akubor, E. Osewe,  “Campaigns and Electioneering: Reflecting on the
2015 General Elections in Nigeria.” Independent National
Electoral Commission (INEC), Abuja, Nigeria
Akubor. E.O, ( 2016), Historicizing Ethnic Politics and Its Impact on
Nation Building and Nationalism in Nigeria in the 21st century.
Historical Research Letter s ISS N 2224 -3178 (Paper ), ISSN
2225-0964 (On line), Vol 33, 2016, www.iiste.org
Akubor, E. Osewe (2020)  Elections and cracks in elite consensus,
Olaniyi R (ed),  Two Decades of Democracy in Nigeria: Nigeria
since 1999, University Press, Ibadan (In Press).
Akpan A”18  Corps Members kidnapped in AkwaIbom, Guardian, 24
February, 2019.
Agency Report, INEC presents N1.9 million Cheque to Family of
Deceased Corps Member, November 20, 2019
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Welfare of Corps Member and Staff during Election Duties
113
Agency News, Premium Times,  February, 23, 2019
Ann Godwin, Corps members Esc ape Death as Gunmen attack Polling
Unit, Guardian, 23,February, 2019
European Union Election Observation Mission Report, 2011
Human right watch; Nigeria; post election violence killed 800. Hrw.org,
may 16, 2011
Ibrahim, Jibrin and Garuba, D. Governance and Institution-Building in
Nigeria: A Study of the Independent National Electoral
Commission  (Abuja: Center for Democracy and Development,
2008)
Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) National Pre -
election Youth Summit Report, January 2015
Independent National Electoral Commission, Activity Report 2011 -
2014.
INEC Standard Payment for Election Officers. See document
http://www.inecnigeria.org/wp content/uploads/2014/08/
INEC-STANDARD-PAYMENT-FOR-ELECTION-OFFICERS2.pdf, INEC and
NYSC, Memorandum of Understanding, November 2010
Okon Bassey, 2019, Gunmen Abduct 18 Corps Members, Injured
UNIUYO Lecturer in Akwa Ibom.
OnuegbuChioma (2020), AkwaIbom Police Rescue Youth Corpers,
Others abducted during re-run election, Vanguard, 27, 2020
Phillips  Deborah, The Plight of Corps Members During Election and the
Need for Action: 2019 general election: Plight of Nigerian Corps
members  28 April 2019   |   3:11 am (The Guardian)
Siddique A (nd), The June 12 Presidential Election was neither
free nor fair. Centre for Democratic Development
Research and Training (CEDDERT) Occasional
Publication.
Section 2 of the Electoral Act 2010 As Amended
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Emmanuel Osewe Akubor
114
Internet Sources
https://aceproject.org/ace - en/topics/em/elections - and - youth/the -
case -of - nigeria
https://aceproject.org/ace-en/topics/em/elections-and-youth/the-
case-of-nigeria
https://cyber3x.wordpress.com/2019/02/19/nysc-knocks-inec-over-
Corps-members-welfare-challenges ,
https://cyber3x.wordpress.com/2019/02/19/postponed-polls-we-
were-treated-as-slaves-nysc-members
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and Elections in Nigeria:
115
8
The NYSC and Elections in Nigeria: An Examination of
the Challenges of Corps Members during the Conduct
of Elections
Rabiatu Ibrahim Abdullahi
Introduction
Attempt at instituting democracy and democratization in Africa has
been seriously marred by unwanted controversy instability and
frequent military interventions. The problems experienced in the
process in African countries are not peculiar to the continent. Jega
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Rabiatu Ibrahim Abdullahi
116
asserted that: democratization is a gradual process that is both long
and tortuous.
1
The Nigerian scenario provides the best explanation for democratic
process in Africa and other parts of the developing world. Even though,
election deciders or the ‘king makers’ have for the most part been
blamed for instituting violence and oth er acts of criminalities. Yet
majority of the people have the belief that these election deciders are
impartial. Though the election management bodies cannot be blamed
for the incessant violence and criminalities that ensue, the primary goal
of any electio n management body is to organize free, fair and credible
elections with an outcome that is acceptable by all stakeholders.
2
Until 1999, Nigeria’s experience at democratization was destroyed by
the incessant incursion of military into the Nigerian Polity.
3
Elections
are essential ingredients in any participatory democracy. The electoral
process is a way of making choices which gives each member of the
electorate reasonable hope of having his /her alternatives elected.
4
In
effect, for any democracy to be worth the name, it must be a product of
credible elections whose processes must have a measure of integrity.
Kwajao opines that the electoral process is an ideal and integral part of
democratic process whether in a developed or developing society.
5
1
A.M. Jega, “Electoral Reforms in Nigeria: Prospects and challenges”. A lecture by
the Chairman INEC Nigeria at the 7th International Electoral Affairs Symposium,
2013, in Kuala Lampur, Malaysia. P.2
2
M.A. Kwaja,. INEC and the Management of Elections: Les sons from Nigeria.
Open Society Institute Africa Governance monitoring and Advocacy Project
Afrimap, 2008.
3
Jega, ‘Electoral Reforms in Nigeria…’ p.4
4
K. Faluyi, “Political Violence and other undemocratic practices: A cog in the
stability of a democratic polity in The grassroots and political change in Nigeria”.
Proceedings of the workshop on grassroots participation in politics and the
challenges of democratization in Nigeria.New era foundation Lagos Nigeria.
5
Kwaja,.‘INEC and the Management of Elections …’
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and Elections in Nigeria:
117
Election man agement bodies such as the Independent National
Electoral Commission (INEC) in Nigeria play a very significant role in
the conduct of election, and, by implication, they also contribute in the
consolidation of electoral democracy. The primary goal of any e lection
management body is to organize free, fair and credible elections with
an outcome that is generally acceptable by all stakeholders.
Notwithstanding its perceived inadequacies, INEC has over the years
brought about improvements and innovations in the conduct of
elections in Nigeria in a way that would make the process more
acceptable. These improvements and innovations have further
consolidated the gains recorded in organising credible elections in
recent times. The involvement of youth Corps members in the nation's
electoral processes is one of such innovations.
6
The issue of attacks targeted at Corps members during election s has
constituted a challenge to the progress of successful partnership
between the NYSC and Independent National Electoral Commis sion.
Several cases have been reported overtime on how Corps members
were attacked by political thugs and in some cases angry mobs that are
bent on disrupting peaceful electoral process. The need for the
engagement of NYSC youth Corps members in elections arose in 2006
and by 2007, youth Corps members were actively engaged in the
electoral process in Nigeria. The engagement of Corps members in the
conduct of election s was initially considered as a welcome
development by the electorates until the unfortunate incident of the
2011 General elections where Corps members lost their lives in Bauchi
and other parts of the country. This development has affected the
growing interest of Corps members involvement in elections as most of
them became reluctant in participating in elections despite the fact that
they are not unaware of its significance to the growth and development
6
S.B. Harris, “Politics of Privatization in Kano state”. A dissertation submitted to
the Department of Political Science, UsmanuDanfodiyo University, Sokoto.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Rabiatu Ibrahim Abdullahi
118
of Nigeria as nation. In addition, the issue of welfare for Corps members
has been a major subject of debate. This study therefore, aims at
interrogating the challenges faced by the Youth Corps members during
the conduct elections in Nigeria.
The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC)
The Independent National Electoral Commission was established by
the provision of section 153 (1 ) ( f) of the constitution of the Federal
Republic of Nigeria. The functions of the body as spelt out in the
Electoral Act (2010) includes but not limited to registration of political
parties, organizing elections, registration of voters and monitoring
political parties.
7
The origin of the electoral body can be traced to those electoral bodies
which existed before and after Independence.
8
The defunct Electoral
Commission of Nigeria (ECN) was the precursor of all electoral bodies
in the country. The Federal Electoral Commission (FEC) was
established at independence in 1960. This umpire conducted the 1964
and 1965 elections. In 1978, the Military government under then Gen.
Olusegun Obasanjo established the Federal Electoral Commissio n
(FEDECO) which oversaw the military -civilian transition elections in
1979 and the general elections of 1983 which were conducted under
the civilian administration of Alhaji Shehu Shagari; winner of the 1979
elections.
The National Electoral Commission ( NEC) which conducted elections in
1987, 1990, 1991 and 1993 was set up by the Babangida
administration in 1987. The Abacha Administration which succeeded
7
Kwaja,.‘INEC and the Management of Elections…’
8
S. Musa, ‘Nigeria experience in electoral management. A Paper presented at the
Regional Workshop on Capacity Building in Electoral Administration in Africa.’
Tangier Morocco 24 – 28 Sept 2001 African Training and Research Center in
Administration for Development, United Nation Department of Econom ic and
Social Affairs.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and Elections in Nigeria:
119
the Babangida administration established the National Electoral
Commission of Nigeria (NECON). The Abd ulsalami Abubakar
government, successor to the Abacha administration established the
present Independent National Electoral Commission in 1998. The most
recent of the activities of the Independent National Electoral
Commission was the conduct of the 2015/2 019 general elections in the
country which was widely acclaimed to be free and fair.
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC)
The National Youth Service Corps Scheme was established by Decree
24 of 22nd May 1973 as a deliberate effort to ensure the realization of
the Federal Government’s policy of Reconciliation, Rehabilitation and
Reconstruction introduced by the Federal Government after the
Nigerian Civil War. It also aims at raising a new crop of disciplined,
patriotic and detribalized Nigerians by allowing the youths to undergo
national service in States other than their State of origin for the
purpose of national development and integration.  The Scheme was
established with the view to prom ote peace, encourage mutual
understanding and common ties among Nigerian youths thereby
fostering national unity and integration.
Decree No. 24 of 22nd May, 1973, was replaced by Decree 51 of 16th
June 1993.  With the adoption of the 1999 constitution which ushered
in democratic rule, the enabling document establishing the NYSC is now
referred to as “the NYSC Act CAP N84, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria
2004”.
9
Involvement of Corps Members in Electoral Processes
The electoral body in Nigeria has since its inception in 1960 employed
adhoc staff to perform various functions during elections. The
9
G. Enegwea and G. Umoden, ‘NYSC: Twenty years of National Service, (Abuja:
Gabumo Pub, 1993). 10.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Rabiatu Ibrahim Abdullahi
120
partnership between INEC and NYSC was as a result of INEC’s request
forwarded to the NYSC Directorate Headquarters soliciting for the
services of Corps members in the conduct of elections in February
2007. It was this request that formed the basis of the Memorandum of
Understanding (MoU) signed between the two bodies in 2010.
This agreement was reviewed and formalised in 2013.
10
Under this
arrangement, Corps members are not under any compulsion to partake
in the elections. The involvement of the youth Corps members in actual
elections began with their participation as polling clerks in the conduct
of Kogi State Governorship re -run election held on Saturday, 29th
March, 2008.
11
The success of this first involvement led to further
engagement of Corps members in the conduct of bye - elections, re -run
and supplementary elections “which were also adjudged satisfactory”.
12
Date Place No. Of
Corps
Member
Involved
29th,March, Governorship Re-run, Kogi state 5,851
2008 Governorship Re-run, Adamawa
State.
177
29
th
April, 2008 Bye Election Maru North, Zamfara
State
3,035
19
th
April, 2008 Governorship Bye Election, Sokoto
State
3,035
10
NYSC, Managing Nigeria’s pluralism for peace and national development:  NYSC
contribution. Being a presentation of the National Yout h Service Corps Scheme to
participants of Senior Executive Course (SEC) No. 33, 2011 of the National Institute
for Policy and Strategic Studies, Kuru, Plateau State between August 29th and
September 2nd 2011 at the Conference Hall, NYSC Directorate Headqua rters,
Maitama, Abuja.
11
(2011). Managing Nigeria’s pluralism for peace and national development
12
NYSC, Managing Nigeria’s pluralism for peace and national development…
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and Elections in Nigeria:
121
24
th
May,2008 Governorship Bye Election,
Bayelsa state
1,805
7
th
June,2008 Bye Elections into Lafia/Obi
Federal Constituency, Nasarawa
state
447
23
rd
August,
2008
Governorship Bye Election Cross
Ri ver state
2265
24
th
January
2009
Anambra South Senatorial Re-run 1619
28
th
February,
2009
Guma  South Constituency, Benue
State
160
7
th
March,2009 Quampang South Constituency,
Rerun, Plateau state
124
14
th
June, 2009 Batsari StateConstituency Rerun,
Katsina State
173
25
th
June, 2009 Governorship Rerun, Ekiti state 806
20
th
August,
2009
Malumfashi State Constituency
Bye Election, Katsina
21
15
th
August,
2009
Ekiti North Senatorial  Bye
Election, Ekiti state
714
17
th
October,
2009
Gamawa State Constituency Bye
Election, Bauchi State
177
5
th
December,
2009
Osun East Senatorial Bye Election,
Osun State
1217
19
th
December,
2009
Kebbi Central   Senatorial Bye
Election, Kebbi state.
892
10
th
February,
2010
Governorship Election, Anambra
state
4658
10
th
April, 2010 FCT Area Council Election, Abuja 2400
15
th
January-5
th
February 2011
2011ElectionsVoters’Registration
and April, 2011
April 2011 General Elections 185, 000
TOTAL 217,268
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Rabiatu Ibrahim Abdullahi
122
A careful look at this table shows that from a mere five (5,000)
thousand participants, the collaboration is now boosting of well over
one hundred and eighty thousand (180,000) in just less than ten years.
This is an indication of the success of the collaboration.
Reasons for the Involvement of NYSC in Elections
Some of the reasons advanced by INEC for the involvement ofCorps
members in the conduct of elections include:
a) Intellectual capacity of Corps members. Being graduates of
higher institutions, Corps members are easily trainable which
makes them assets in the partnership.
b) The deployment of Corps members to all the nooks and
crannies of the country makes the you th Corps members
particularly suitable for election duties. The geographical
spread in the posting policy of the Scheme makes it easy for
Corps members to be posted evenly for election duties.
c) Since Corps members are posted outside their states of or igin
and geopolitical zones, there is the likelihood that they would
be neutral and nonpartisan. Similarly, the nationalistic outlook
infused in the Corps members during Orientation course makes
them ready for this type of engagement.
d) Internal discipli nary mechanism as enshrined in the NYSC
byelaws makes sanctioning of Corps members involved in
electoral fraud easy. In addition, the NYSC bye -laws section 4(i)
prohibits Corps members from taking part in partisan politics.
13
The youth service has earned fo r itself, a place in the hearts and minds
of the generality of the citizenry. The Scheme and the graduate youths
mobilized are generally trusted by the Scheme’s beneficiaries; the host
communities. This goodwill has rubbed off on all elections where Corps
members participated.
13
NYSC Bye-laws, (2011). National Youth Service Corps, NDHQ, Abuja.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and Elections in Nigeria:
123
Roles of Corps Members in the 2015 General Elections
In view of their background as mentioned earlier in this paper, Corps
members are strategically positioned to conduct credible election s in
Nigeria. In line with the provision of the Memorandum of
Understanding (MoU) between INEC and NYSC, the commission opened
a website for interested Corps members to apply for recruitment as
Adhoc staff during the 2015 General elections. Interested Corps
members applie d and at the close of registration, one hundred and
eighty six thousand (186,000) Corps members applied.
After the recruitment exercise, a training programme was organized for
the Corps members on their expected roles and responsibilities. Their
roles in the electoral process in 2015 include:
(a) Registration of Voters for elections.
(b)     Issuance of voters cards before election.
(c) Responsible for setting up and managing the polling station.
(d)     Participation as Presiding Officers during elections.
(e) Operating Card Readers.
(f) Issuing signed ballot paper to voters.
(g)     Ensure that voters place ballot paper in the ballot boxes.
(h) Verify existence of Voters on Voters’ list.
(i)     Sort out ballot papers.
(j) Verify valid and invalid votes.
(k) Count both valid and invalid votes.
(l) Count and open number of votes cast on political party basis.
(m) Complete the result sheets and paste the result at the polling
unit.
(n) Fill the neces sary forms and make returns to the collation
centre. Corps members alongside other citizens participated in
the March 28th Presidential and National Assembly elections
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Rabiatu Ibrahim Abdullahi
124
and April 11th Governorship and House of Assembly
elections.
14
The 2015 General elections was adjudged credible not withstanding
observed lapses which, as stated inter alia, are synonymous with many
elections in the world. Corps members demonstrate high level of
competence and initiatives in addition to what INEC provided to ensure
the success of the elections . Some of these initiatives include
maintaining orderliness at polling units even in the absence of security
personnel and the seamless handling of the Card Reader despite some
initial hitches.
Notwithstanding the plethora of challenges to dissuade them from
taking part in the electoral processes through blackmail, threats and
sometimes outright molestation, Corps members put up a brave front
in defense of democracy. The outcome of the election result which led
to losers conceding defeat is a pointer to the credibility of the elections.
This is in addition to the significant reduction in the number of
litigations against the outcome of the election s. The 2015 General
elections recorded a little above four hundred (400) cases of litigation
as against the over six hundred (600) recorded in 2011.
15
Challenges of Corps Members during the Conduct of Elections
Since the commencement of the collaboration between NYSC and INEC
there have been reports of inadequate welfare provision s made
available for Corps members involved in election duties. According to
information gathered from the field, delay in the payment of Corps
member’s allowance s and sometimes complaints arising fr om
nonpayment of Allowances by Corps members who participated in the
conduct of the elections contributes to the failures encountered in the
14
NYSC Bye-laws, (20 11). National Youth Service Corps, NDHQ, Abuja.
15
NYSC Bye-laws, (2011). National Youth Service Corps, NDHQ, Abuja.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and Elections in Nigeria:
125
collaborative efforts between INEC and NYSC.
16
The following are some
of the challenges associated with the INEC/ NYSC collaboration.
i. Public Perception : Public perception of the collaboration
between INEC and NYSC has expectedly been rather mixed.
While some view the collaboration as successful, others are
cynical. Many of the latter blame Corps members for any
hitch or failure in the elections just like they do to other ad
hoc staff of the Commission not withstanding whether or
not the ad hoc staff are actually responsible for the hitch or
failure. This sentiment, a bad omen for the collaboration,
has been existent f rom the onset of the collaboration. The
failure of Card Readers during the 2015 General elections in
some polling booths, for example, was blamed on the ad hoc
staff.
ii. Electoral violence as a disincentive to Corps
members:Electoral violence, especially the death of eleven
(11) Corps members in the 2011 elections played a
significant role in discouraging Corps members from
officiating in elections. Where Corps members are willing to
participate they are often discouraged by their more
circumspect parents and guardians. The tragic incidence in
2011 forced the National Youth Service Corps Scheme to
call for a review of the MoU on the participation of Corps
members in the electoral process. Thenceforth ,Corps
members serve as election officials only on their own
volition.  This impinges on the spirit of the collaboration as
it reduces the number willing to participate in the process.
For instance, out of about two hundred and fifty thousand
(250,000) Corps members, One Hundred and Eighty Six
Thousand (186,000) Cor ps members applied to participate
16
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Rabiatu Ibrahim Abdullahi
126
in the 2015 general elections. With 120, 000 polling units,
the electoral body requires 480,000 ad hoc staff.  It would
have employed all mobilized Corps members as election
officials.
iii. Lack of synergy between the two in stitutions: - In the
2015 elections some of the staff in the institutions worked
at crosspurposes to the spirit of the MoU. A number of
instances abound to support this position. For instance,
while the MoU clearly states that NYSC State Coordinators
are m embers of the Inter -Agency Consultative Committee
on Election Security (ICCESS), in some states, Resident
Electoral Commissioners (RECs) blatantly refused to allow
them function in that capacity until after the intervention of
INEC Headquarters. Corps memb ers interested in
participating in the elections as officials were required to
register online. However, the electoral body failed to
involve the NYSC in the recruitment or posting of Corps
members. There was therefore no way to verify the identity
of all applicants posing as Corps members online. As a
result there was the “mixing stones with beans syndrome”
as the all comers registration of adhoc staff is aptly
described by Gen. MI Tsiga (Rtd), a former Director General
of the Scheme . This incident makes assessing the
performance of Corps members difficult.
17
iv. Non implementation of the provisions of the MoU : - As
part of the agreement reached between INEC and NYSC
“Registration Area Centers” (RACs) were set up to ease
movement of Corps members and materials during
elections. Corps members were gathered at these centers
17
K. Faluyi, Political Violence and other undemocratic practices…
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and Elections in Nigeria:
127
where they received election materials before proceeding
to polling Units. It was agreed that INEC will provide basic
accommodation and sanitation facilities at the Centers.
However, most of t he RACs lacked these facilities. In
addition, thetransportation made available to transport
Corps members either to or from the training centers, the
RACS or the polling units was not efficient as some Corps
members were left stranded.
18
v. Poor Remuneration of Adhoc Staff : - The unusual silence
of INEC on the amount to be paidtoCorps members from the
onset of the electoral process gave rise to speculations. This
is also in addition to the inability of INEC to pay Corps
members approved allowances as at when d ue. It took a
press statement from the NYSC to douse the tension this
speculation administrative lapse generated among Corps
members.
19
Suggestions
One of the best ways of sustaining the collaboration between the two
organizations is to review the MoU to t ake care of some sections that
are out of place.  Issues such as the definition of welfare should be
addressed in the M oU to make for clarity and avoidance of
administrative overlap. Provisions such as security of Corps members
and general welfare as well as continuous Voter education should be
included in the M oU.Increased participation of Corps members would
then be encouraged. Similarly, the two organizations need to track their
18
A. Guobadia, Improving the quality of Election Management. A paper pres ented
at a conference of Commonwealth Chief Election Officers organized by the
Commonwealth Secretariat in cooperation with the Election Commission of India.
The Ashok Hotel, New Delhi, 24 -26 Feb. 2005 p.9
19
A. Guobadia, Improving the quality of Election M anagement… p.5
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Rabiatu Ibrahim Abdullahi
128
activities to ensure that their Officers in the field implement and strictly
abide by the content of the MoU.
INEC should explore possible ways of improving the allowances
ofCorps members engaged in electoral duties. INEC can also make
adequate arrangement for transportation of men and materials to and
from their duty posts. One o f the major complaints of Corps members is
that they are often left stranded after elections with the attendant
security risks. INEC should involve the NYSC and Corps members
during the voter education, registration exercise, distribution and
update of vot ers register which ought to commence immediately after
the conclusion of any election. Corps members can be mobilized by the
Department of Voter Education at INEC to educate communities during
the Corps Weekly Community Development Service (CDS) programme.
The continuous voters register can be incorporated in the CDS
activities.Corps members have effectively taken part in the UNICEF
sponsored awareness and sensitization programs on HIV/AIDS scourge
and in the MDGs (SDGs) programs in the last decade. This co uld be
replicated in INEC activities.
NYSC budget does not capture the participation of its Staff and Corps
members in elections. The NYSC has to draw funds from its overhead to
enable its staff monitor Corps members and address their needs to the
detriment of its other statutory activities. It is therefore strongly
recommended that the Scheme takes cognizance of this and henceforth
make necessary budgetary provision s either in tandem with the
electoral body or as a separate vote charge. The budget should cover
requirements for participation of Corps members and NYSC Staff in
elections. The weekly Community Development Service forum could be
used to train Corps members in handling the electronic voting system
and deploy same for the purpose of voters registration exercise,
distribution and actual voting.
20
20
A. Guobadia, Improving the quality of Election Management…’ p.8
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and Elections in Nigeria:
129
Conclusion
This paper examined the participation of Corps members in the
conduct of elections and the challenges associated with the conduct of
elections. The outcome of the elections is a clear just ification for the
involvement of this class of Nigerians. While the participation of Corps
members boosted the credibility of elections in Nigeria and restored a
lot of confidence on INEC as the umpire, the collaboration is still
bedevilled with numerous c hallenges as enumerated above . The two
organizations must get back to the drawing board and address areas
such as provision of security cover for Corps members, voters’
education and improved synergy in the implementation of the
provisions of the MoU.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Rabiatu Ibrahim Abdullahi
130
Bibliography
Africa Independent Television (AIT) (2011) Focus Nigeria, 17th
January, 2011.
Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, (1999)
Electoral Act, (2010)
Faluyi K, ‘Political Violence and other undemocratic practices: A cog in
the stability of a democratic polity in the grassroots and
political change in Nigeria.’ Proceedings of the workshop on
grassroots participation in politics and the challenges of
democratization in Nigeria. New era foundation Lagos Nigeria.
2002.
Gumbi, K . S, ‘Elections in Africa and the legitimacy of democratic
Regimes - A Nigerian Scenario.’ Humanities and social sciences
Review CD Rom. ISSN: 2165 – 62 58::04 (01):183 190 2015.
Guobadia, A, ‘Improving the quality of Election Management.’ A paper
presented at a conference of Commonwealth Chief Election
Officers organized by the Commonwealth Secretariat in
cooperation with the Election Commission of India. The Ashok
Hotel, New Delhi, 24 -26 Feb. 2005.
Harris, S. B. ‘Politics of Privatization in Kano state.’ A dissertation
submitted to the Department of Political Science, Usmanu
Danfodiyo University, Sokoto. 2014.
INEC and NYSC, Memorandum of Understanding (MoU). 2013.
Jega, A. M. ‘Electoral Reforms in Nigeria: Prospects and challenges.’ A
lecture by the Chairman INEC Nigeria at the 7th International
Electoral Affairs Symposium, 2013, in Kuala Lampur, Malaysia.
Kwaja, C. M. A, INEC and the Management of Elections: Lessons from
Nigeria.  Open Society Institute Africa Governance monitoring
and Advocacy Project  Afrimap. 2008.
Musa, S. ‘Nigeria experience in electoral management.’ A Paper
presented at the Regional Workshop on Capacity Building in
Electoral Administration in Africa. Targier Morocco 24 – 28
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and Elections in Nigeria:
131
Sept 2001 African Training and Research Center in
Administration for Development, United Nation Department of
Economic and Social Affairs.
NYSC ‘Brief on security arrangements put in place by the NYSC Scheme
towards the security and safety of Corps members before,
during and after the 2015 General Election’ p resented at a
meeting with National Democratic Institute (NDI) International
Election Observation Delegation, March, 2015.
NYSC Bye-laws, (2011). National Youth Service Corps, NDHQ, Abuja.
NYSC, ‘Managing Nigeria’s pluralism for peace and national
development:  NYSC contribution. Being a presentation of the
National Youth Service Corps Scheme  to participants of Senior
Executive Course (SEC)’ No. 33, 2011 of the National Institute
for Policy and Strategic Studies, Kuru, Plateau State between
August 29th a nd September 2nd 2011 at the Conference Hall,
NYSC Directorate Headquarters, Maitama, Abuja.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION E.K. Enojo
132
9
Security Challenges in the Conduct Elections in
Nigeria: A Study of NYSC Members Adhoc-Staff
E.K. Enojo
Introduction
Elections was first organized and conducted by the colonial
government in response to the pressures of the nationalists who were
agitating for greater participation in colonial government. In 1922,
Nigerians were given the first opportunity to occupy certa in political
offices. Though, the franchise was restricted and representation
limited, it was an achievement for the nationalists who were struggling
for the enthronement of democratic order as a pre -requisite for greater
participation of the people in the process of government (Akpotor,
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Security Challenges in Conducting Elections in Nigeria:
133
2009:34). After 1922, several elections were conducted in different
parts of the country to elect leaders at national, regional and local
levels. However, it was the 1959 general elections that paved way for
the emergence o f Nigeria as a “sovereign state”. Since then various
elections have been held either in transition, from one civilian
government to another or in transition from a military regime to a
civilian government. What is paramount or central to this study is the
nature of the political violence and assassinations that beset these
elections, which not only undermine the Social Contract theory of the
State, but in most cases culminated in the collapse of democratic
government in Nigeria and the credibility and accep tability of these
elections. The fourth republic (1999 -date) did not make any difference,
although the system did not collapse, cases of political violence and
assassinations were rampant in virtually all the 36 States and the
Federal Capital Territory, Abuja (Guyer, 2010).
Statement of the Problem
For the sake of understanding political violence and assassination in
the conduct of elections in Nigeria, elections can be broadly categorized
into three, that is elections organized by the colonial government in
1922, 1951 and 1959, the military regimes in 1979, 1993, 1999 and
finally the ones organized by civilian government in 1964, 1983, 2003,
2007, 2011, 2015 and 2019. Among these three categories, the latter
appears to be more violent and crisis riddled compared to the former.
This study argues that, like the colonially supervised elections, the
1979 and 1993 general elections presided over by the military were
not beset by the problem of political violence. Therefore, it can be
rightly argued that, milita ry regimes in Nigeria have organized
relatively violent-free elections although these elections suffer from the
problem of credibility as the case of the 1999 Presidential Elections.
Egwu and Jibril (2006:8) argued that the logic behind this success is the
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION E.K. Enojo
134
excessive powers wielded by military in coercing the citizens to
operate within the bounds of the existing laws and decrees.
It is significant to note that, political violence associated with election
and electoral process in Nigeria started with the 195 9 federal elections
designed by the British to facilitate the transition from colonial rule to
independence. The problem intensified with the 1964 General
elections. Even before the elections were held, it was clear from the
extreme positions taken by the two major alliances of political groups,
that is; the Nigeria National Alliance (NNA) and United Progressive
Grand Alliance (UPGA), that no matter which one of the two groups
won, the results will be hotly contested. The manipulation of electoral
laws by t he ruling party, Northern People’s Congress (NPC) resulted in
the call for boycott of the elections by the opposition (Ihovbare, 2003).
In describing the conduct of the 1959 general elections, Dudley
(1982:37) stated that; The electoral officers were terro rized into
absconding from their offices once they receive the nominations papers
of governing party candidates, leaving the opposition candidates with
no opportunity of registering the nomination papers. So, fragrantly was
electoral procedure abused that at close of nominations some 88 out of
a total of 174 NPC candidates in the North had their candidature
unopposed. In the West, about 30 percent of the NNDP were supposed
to have been unopposed. The situation in the East was not much
different. Therefore, as envisaged by many people including the
proclaimed winners of the 1964 general elections the results w ere not
only rejected, but the opposition especially in the Western region
resorted to violence to contest what they perceived as the reverse of
their m andate by the ruling NPC. The situation gave birth to arson,
looting, killings, massive destruction of properties and total breakdown
of law and order beyond the control of the central government.
Consequent upon this, a state of emergency was imposed and the then
Prime Minister declared the Western region as the “Wild-Wild-West’’.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Security Challenges in Conducting Elections in Nigeria:
135
The intensity of the electoral violence recorded after the 1964 general
election affected the legitimacy of the new civilian authority and
subsequently, the military intervened i n Nigerian politics on January
15, 1966. After a prolonged military rule that lasted for thirteen years,
the military resolved to hand over power to a democratically elected
government in 1979. Although, Murtala Mohammed who initiated the
transition to civ il rule programme was assassinated in a bloody
military coup of 13th February, 1976, his decision was upheld by his
predecessor. As such, arrangement was made by Obasanjo’s
administration to facilitate the smooth transfer of power to civilians
and the dise ngagement of the military from active politics. The 1979
constitution was drafted and the ban on politics was lifted, which saw
the emergence of several political associations seeking for registration
as political parties. Finally, five political parties w ere registered namely
National Party of Nigeria (NPN), Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN), People
Redemption Party (PRP), Nigerian Peoples Party (NPP), and UNPP. The
Federal Electoral Commission (FEDECO) was also established to
conduct elections at various level s of government. As stated earlier, the
1979 elections that was organized and supervised by the military was
relatively peaceful, though, not violent -free in its entirety. Few cases of
political violence were recorded in some parts of the country
contesting the outcome of the elections. The major issue was the
question of 2/3 of 19 states, which was resolved in favour of Alhaji
Shehu Shagari, the NPN presidential candidate, by the Supreme Court
(see Ake, 2002:41, Nnoli, 1995, and Adisa, 1960).
However, the situation was different in the 1983 elections. The 1983
elections both at national and state levels were a replica of the 1964
general elections. A contention of this study is that the political violence
that griped the Nigerian state since the country’s return to democracy
in 1999 and the aftermath of the 2003, 2007 and 2011 general
elections, has posed a great challenge for the survival of federalism and
the Nigerian state. Nine years after the return of the country to civil
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION E.K. Enojo
136
rule, for instance, politically motivated killings have continued to haunt
Nigeria’s nationhood. In this and other related crisis, it is estimated that
over 11000 Ni gerians have lost their lives; hundreds of thousands have
been displaced, while properties worth billions of Naira have been
destroyed with the 2011 post -elections political violence and
assassinations as the worst ever mostly in  some Northern states of
Bauchi, Kano, Katsina, Kaduna, Niger, Nassarawa, and Borno. In short ,
the political climate has been very hostile, frustratingly uncertain, and
unstable. Intra and Inter -party conflicts, lawlessness and the
devastating influence of godfatherism have continu ed to pose serious
challenges to the survival of the country’s statehood. It is within this
context that the issue of the theory of the state of nature and political
violence and assassinations is examined with the view to finding lasting
and acceptable so lution. For instance, in the 2011 presidential post -
election violence, about 1,938 deaths w ere recorded . The breakdown
shows that, Kaduna alone recorded 520 deaths, Born o 420, Kano 350,
Plateau (Jos) 51 , Abuja, the Federal Capital, 17, Suleja 7 and Bauchi 34
(for more details, see The Punch, Thursday, 8 July 2011:3-4 ).
Political violence, the state of nature and a stateless society cannot be
separated from each other considering their interrelatedness and
interdependency. A stateless society is a term deve loped by political
anthropologists, which draws attention to the fact that the state has not
always been present in human societies. Hunter -gathering society
founded based on kinship -exhibited forms of political organization but
they evolved no formal divi sion of labour or coercive institutions
empowered to exercise force over the people. The present states are
consequence of the development of social stratification and class
relations, or exogenous, resulting from military conquest (McCormick,
2001:6) or i n a Hobbesian state of war against all. This is similar to the
state of nature except with some relative limitation s in organization
and style that were controlled and centralized by elites.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Security Challenges in Conducting Elections in Nigeria:
137
A state of nature is the condition of humankind before a specific event,
intervention, or artifice. Whether treated as a historical reality or as the
result of a mental experiment, the concept of the state of nature has
been used as a point of departure to mark the opinions of various
writers. For instance, Hobbes argue s that the state of nature depicted
conditions in the absence of political power and authority or in the
absence of the artifice of the state. Locke’s thought of the state of nature
as antecedent to the formation of civil society. Rousseau feels that the
state of nature was associated with man in a pre -social, pre -linguistic
world. In Christian thought, the state of nature or man’s natural
condition was likely to be equated to what was thought to be his
biblical fate, and the story in Genesis (especially ch apters 1 -3),
contrasted natural innocence with sinfulness after the fall. The many
meanings of “natural” in this context embrace a characterization of
human nature. For example, the orthodox Christian account saw human
nature after the fall as inevitably f lawed. The research will, however,
argue that the state o f nature simply refers to lawlessness, violence and
crises that debase human philosophical and psychological intelligence
and general understanding. It also connotes actions that are not led by
reason and intellect but rather appetite, desires and passion for
primitive accumulation of wealth as witnessed from 1999 when the
fourth republic began showcasing four general elections with high level
of political violence, assassinations, kidnapping and ethn o-religious
conflicts were freely, absurdly, primitively and immorally promoted or
executed by the Nigerian elites (McCormick, 2001:189).
Given the current harvest of political violence and assassinations that
characterized the Nigerian political landscap e and its worrisome
nature, the study, using a retrospective analysis of events, accepts the
thesis that “the emergence of the Nigerian Colonial State is a by -
product of a ‘fraudulent social contract’ and not of a’ negotiated will’ of
the wielded parts” (Akpotor, 2019:7). As a result of this, the colonial
state, in order to be able to protect the commercial interests of the
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION E.K. Enojo
138
colonialists, imposed a patrimonial system of administration by
enlisting the dominant group in their services as co -conspirators.
Nigerian post -colonial state inherited this mode of administration and
its vices from their colonial master, Britain. Thus, the relationship
between the political leaders and the led masses was that of
domination and exploitation sometime s through force and impunity.
Governance deviated from a call to service, but avenue for corruption
and accumulation of wealth.
A system of patronage in public offices and the practice of political
intolerance became the order of the day. This actually led to political
violence and assassinations because professional, economic and
political elites sought political power as a condition to fulfilling and
furthering their economic interests. The control of instrument of the
state gave them access to a share in the profitable opportunities offered
by the Neo -colonial economy which otherwise refers to as imperialist
economy. It is against these matrices of historical deformities amidst
the seeming privatization of political power by few in both the colonial
and post -colonial state that shape the nature and character of our
Nigerian political elites, actors and office holders in the current
democratic dispensation ; the implications on democratic good
governance as well as the way out, can be understood. The prevalent
‘loot and warfar e’ approach to politics, the opposition phobia, the pre -
occupation with interests of politics of survival and personal security
and political violence and assassinations due to sit -tightism seek
expression in this paradigm and our leaders keep drawing insp irations
from Machiavelli political thought, with emphasis on his slogan, the end
justifies the means.
NYSC Members Adhoc -Staff and Security Challenges in the Conduct
of Elections in Nigeria
Considering the political violence and assassination that had taken
place in Nigeria from 1999 to date, it is obvious that during this period,
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Security Challenges in Conducting Elections in Nigeria:
139
Nigerians lived in something close to a failed state or similar to the
state of nature as our experiences reveal ed outright savagery, banditry
and brutality in a naked fashion and unprecedented form. All these
contrasted with the social contract theory of the state as espoused by
Thomas Hobbes, John Locke and Jean Jacques Rousseau. The research
is of the view that c ivility means absence of extreme disorder, violence
and assassination. The foregoing shows the various fragmented
violence recorded against the NYSC adhoc staff.
The 1999 Election Violence
However, the election observers in 1999 were unanimous in their
reports:  massive irregularities existed in all the elections.  For
example, while the international monitoring groups put the voter
turnout to be in the order of 20%, the election results indicated one of
about 30 – 40%. Jimmy Carter refused to put his stam p of approval on
the presidential vote that elected his friend Olusegun Obasanjo, writing
that “There was a wide disparity between the number of voters
observed at the polling stations and the final result that has been
reported from several states.  Regre ttably, therefore, it is not possible
for us to make an accurate judgment about the outcome of the
presidential election.” The Transition Monitoring Group spread the
blame around quite democratically stressing that fraud was committed
by both sides and it was difficult to say the extent to which the efforts
of the parties that contested the elections cancelled each other. Yet the
election results of the 1999 elections were all upheld. Though the
degree of electoral violence recorded was not much, it is unfo rtunate
that there were some casualties especially as six NYSC adhoc staff
members lost their lives. Three died from boat mishap, while three died
from rampaged caused by political clashes between thugs who
snatched ballot and shot heavily to scare voters.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION E.K. Enojo
140
The 2003 Electoral Violence
In April and May 2003, at least one hundred people were killed and
many more injured during federal and state elections in Nigeria. The
majority of serious abuses were perpetrated by members or supporters
of the ruling party , the People's Democratic Party (PDP).In a number of
locations, elections simply did not take place as groups of armed thugs
linked to political parties and candidates intimidated and threatened
voters in order to falsify results. The violence and climate of
intimidation facilitated widespread fraud, invalidating the results of the
elections in many areas. Nevertheless, the elections were hailed as
peaceful by Nigeria's President Olusegun Obasanjo, who was re-elected,
and were widely praised by foreign gove rnments, including Nigeria's
key foreign allies. The 2003 elections were significant for Nigeria as the
country's first sustained transition from one civilian government to
another (Enojo, 2018).
One year later, local government elections took place across Nigeria on
March 27, 2004. These elections too were characterized by serious
violence and intimidation, as well as widespread fraud and rigging.
There were reports of dozens of people killed before, during and after
the local government elections. The sta ge for this unacceptably high
level of violence was set in the year leading up to Nigeria's 2003
elections, during which hundreds of people were killed in political
clashes or targeted killings, without any serious official response in
terms of investigati on and prosecution. Although government officials
had publicly vowed to punish perpetrators of political violence in the
pre-election period, it was clear by the time of the 2003 elections that
these were empty statements. Most of the perpetrators from all sides of
the political spectrum have escaped without facing justice.
This report documents cases of electoral violence in 2003. It
concentrates on incidents which occurred during the election period in
April and May 2003, whereas earlier reports document ed political
violence in the preceding months. It also refers to incidents of violence
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Security Challenges in Conducting Elections in Nigeria:
141
reported around the 2004 local government elections, although most of
Human Rights Watch's detailed research were a ttempts to sweep the
2003 election violence under the carpet. All these would have long-
term consequences for Nigeria. If the government continues to allow
these crimes to go unpunished, those with political ambitions for the
next elections will revert to the same tactics, knowing that they are
unlikely to ha ve to answer for their actions. This has already been
demonstrated by the conduct of parties and candidates in the 2004
local government elections.
Many incidents of violence were recorded during the April 12 and 19
elections. By the time the State Houses of Assembly elections rolled
around on May 3, much of the electoral violence had run its course. In
several key areas, including the south and the southeast, this was at
least partly because opposition parties started boycotting the polls,
complaining of r igging and fraud in the earlier elections and urging
their voters not to cast useless votes. Independently from these party
boycotts, many voters had simply become disillusioned following the
experience of the first two phases of the elections. Others were
deterred by the prospect of fresh violence. Nonetheless, some serious
incidents were recorded around the May 3 elections. The highest level
of violence during the 2003 elections was in the south and the
southeast, where PDP Governors and their supporters universally
succeeded in resisting opposition bids for office. These were also the
areas where the greatest rigging and fraud were recorded by
independent electoral observers. In these areas, the direct link between
violence and election fraud was clear (Nsongola-Ntalaja, 1997).
More than three quarters of the incidents of "violence, intimidation,
harassment, ballot box stealing and stuffing and vote buying" reported
by TMG election observers were recorded in the south and the
southeast; however, they also reported violence and disruption in other
areas, including the western , central and northern states. The situation
in some areas in the oil -producing Niger -Delta, in the south, was so
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION E.K. Enojo
142
serious that a non -governmental organization which monitored the
elections stated: "In parts of Rivers and Bayelsa States observed by our
monitors, the elections could be characterized as a low intensity armed
struggle. Weapons and firearms of various types and sophistication
were freely used." The largest number of deaths dur ing the elections
occurred when opposing bands of political thugs, in some cases armed
on both sides, fought each other for physical control of a locality,
attempting to displace supporters of the opposing party. Witnesses
reported numerous incidents to Hu man Rights Watch in which armed
thugs, usually though not exclusively from the PDP, shot into the air or
otherwise threatened voters with violence, created chaos, and then ran
away with the ballot boxes. In some instances, these groups shot
directly at ind ividuals from opposing parties. In other cases, their
threatening behavior and public display of weapons ranging from
knives to firearms was sufficient to scare off their opponents, as well as
ordinary voters. This type of intimidation was especially commo n in
the south and the southeast, but also occurred in other areas.
There were also cases where people who tried to intervene to prevent
rigging were beaten by thugs hired by the various parties. Protests at
rigging also often took a violent form, with ag grieved opposition
members, as well as other frustrated voters, smashing election
materials and equipment to prevent fraudulent votes from being used,
and, in more serious cases, attacking PDP members or others suspected
of rigging. Some election observers were threatened, and in some cases
physically attacked, in order to prevent them from witnessing or
reporting abuses. Some of these threats were made by state or local
government officials, others by members of the security forces. At least
three TMG obse rvers in the southeast were among the victims of
violent intimidation during the State House of Assembly elections: in
Enugu State, a TMG observer was whipped with a chain by a
paramilitary mobile policeman apparently acting in collusion with PDP
supporters; an observer in Ebonyi State was beaten by a candidate for
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Security Challenges in Conducting Elections in Nigeria:
143
the state House of Assembly; and an observer in Ebonyi State was
chased out of two polling stations.
In the vast majority of violent incidents involving local government
politicians, PDP official s, PDP candidates, or their supporters, no one
was charged or tried. In a few cases, low -level PDP supporters were
arrested or questioned, but were usually released within a short
period. Many of the candidates whose supporters carried out violence
and int imidation are now occupying political positions at local or state
level. There were also incidents in which soldiers engaged in acts of
violence, for example in Benue and Rivers states. Overall, however,
independent observers reported that the deployment o f the military in
many areas of the country reduced the level of violence, although some
noted that it created an intimidating atmosphere for elections.
While security forces were not partial actors in all incidents, in many
cases they were unable or unwil ling to protect those who came under
attack. Typically, police were reported to flee the scene or to do nothing
when violent clashes broke out or armed people invaded polling
booths. They frequently failed to arrest the perpetrators, even in cases
where vi olence was committed in full view of many witnesses. They
also failed to respond to calls for help from some individuals who
reported receiving direct threats from their political opponents. The
leadership of the various political parties also bears a heav y
responsibility for the actions of their members and supporters,
particularly for the failure to halt violence and intimidation during the
elections. While some party leaders admitted reluctantly that their
supporters may occasionally have engaged in acts of violence, most of
them denied it and simply blamed their opponents. The 2003 general
election was not different from the previous elections, where some
NYSC adhoc staff members lost their lives. The difference here has to do
with the fact that, though the figure s were low, the nature of violence
recorded against the NYSC adhoc staff member s was the most barbaric
and totally absurd. The acclaimed figure of casualties was put at eleven
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION E.K. Enojo
144
deaths, and five brutally injured with two female Corps members who
suffered from acid bath because they refused to comply with political
thugs that hijacked ballot boxes and requested them to rewrite and
sign the manipulated results.
The 2007 Electoral violence
The 2007 elections are regarded as the worst in Nigeria’s post -
independence history. Widespread malpractice s occurred throughout
all stages of the elections, with failures in the late delivery of voting
materials, late commencement of polls in most of the st ates, ballot box
stuffing, allocation of votes where voting did not take place, falsification
of votes, deliberate denial of election materials to perceived strong -
holds of the opposition, and other such actions. Moreover, the current
ruling party fixed th e results in advance, even for local government, in
all but a handful of states as part of an intra -elite deal, accidentally
leaking (accurate) ‘results’ to the press a few days prior to the election.
Some states, such as Rivers, Ogun, Oyo, and Ekiti, saw vote totals far
above the number of registered voters. 2007 broke from 2003 in going
from ‘competitive rigging’ to a vote -allocation, or ‘direct capture’. In
addition, all stages of the elections were marked by extraordinarily
high levels of political viol ence. 55 people died on the day of the
elections and unofficial estimates for the whole electoral period were
200 deaths nationwide. The electoral administration itself, the
Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), has not earned the
public trust and is itself a compliant tool of the ruling PDP. INEC
acknowledged the 2007 contest exhibiting widespread irregularities
and fraud, but blamed the parties themselves. Moreover, the State
Independent Electoral Commissions (SIECs) that r an the local
government elections were overwhelmingly partisan and incompetent.
The Transition Monitoring Group adjudged the 2007 ballot to have
been programmed to fail from the beginning by the politically
motivated activities of the Obasanjo regime in close collaboration w ith
the politically partisan INEC. This conclusion is reinforced by the
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Security Challenges in Conducting Elections in Nigeria:
145
startlingly close 4 to 3 decision of the Nigerian Supreme Court to affirm
the election of President Yar’Adua. In doing so, however, the seven
justices united in criticising INEC and ho lding that the poll was marred
by gross non -compliance with the electoral laws. It is no wonder;
therefore, that many consider the 2007 general elections in Nigeria as
‘stolen elections’. This is not to say that the elections had no redeeming
features. Most reviews mention that the media and civil society showed
an increased effectiveness and that there were election tribunals
considering post -election disputes. But these were modest positives in
a generally disappointing picture.
The 2011 Electoral Violence
Nigeria's 2011 General elections - in particular the Presidential
election- was seen widely as being well - run. This was especially
important given the universally decried elections of 2007. A number of
factors contributed to ensuring that Nigeria's 2011 elections were
successfully administered. They include the fact that the voters'
register was the most accurate and there was also adequate training
and fielding of election Observers. The Chair of the Independent
National Electoral Commission (INEC), Attaching Jega, was well
regarded and judged independent from the government. And, the
parallel vote tabulation used by domestic Observers allowed poll
monitors to concurrently record the results of the elections along with
INEC as a means to provide a ch eck on the official results. In addition,
ordinary citizens were encouraged to report, via calls or texts, any
incidents of fraud or violence that they witnessed or experienced. INEC
declared incumbent Goodluck Jonathan the winner of the Presidential
poll with 59 percent against Muhammadu Buhari's 32 percent. But
despite a more transparent election, about 800 people - mainly in
Kaduna lost their lives and about 65,000 people were displaced, with
the violence depicting religious colouration. Once violence eru pted,
only Soldiers succeeded in stopping it.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION E.K. Enojo
146
Two commissions were established in May, following the elections, to
examine the factors leading to the violence. Governor Patrick Ibrahim
Yakowa established a 12 - person commission in Kaduna, and
nationally, P resident Jonathan established a 22 - person commission.
But just like the track records of past commissions, the findings and
recommendations of these commissions were not effectively
implemented and could not addressed the root causes of the 2011
electoral violence.
The 2015 Electoral Violence
Boko Haram attempted to disrupt the election by attacking voting
centres, killing 41 people. An opposition politician, Umaru Ali, was
gunned down in one attack. In addition to the threat of Boko Haram
disrupting the election, many Nigerians were deeply concerned about
election-related political violence. Nigeria has a history of violence in
the pre - and post -election periods, most notably the 2011 elections in
which more than 800 people were killed and tens of thousands
displaced in post -election violence. There were, unfortunately, a
number of instances of violence in the pre -election period.  In
February2015, Nigeria’s National Human Rights Commission published
a report in which it doc umented more than 60 incidents of election -
related violence in at least 22 states spread across all six geopolitical
zones which had left at least 58 people dead and many more injured.
Some NYSC adhoc staff members were reported maimed or  injured.
The 2019 Electoral Violence
The Nigeria elections in 2019 that brought President Muhammadu
Buhari back into office for a second term were marred by political
violence, some of it by soldiers and police officers, Human Rights Watch
said. Buhari should take concr ete steps to address the widespread
political violence, and to ensure accountability for human rights abuses
by soldiers and police as he begins his second term. The election period
included persistent attacks by factions of the insurgent group Boko
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Security Challenges in Conducting Elections in Nigeria:
147
Haram in the northeast; increased communal violence between
nomadic herdsmen and farmers spreading southward from north -
central states; and a dramatic uptick in banditry, kidnapping, and
killings in the northwestern states of Kaduna, Katsina, and Zamfara.
Security forces have failed to respond effectively to threats to people’s
lives and security.
Human Rights Watch interviewed 32 people, including voters,
journalists, election observers, activists, and Independent National
Electoral Commission officials in River s and Kano states, and
documented 11 deaths specifically related to violent interference in the
election process during the February 23 presidential election and
subsequent state elections. The national and state elections in
February, March, and April 201 9 contributed to the general insecurity
across the country. The politically related violence reported in many
states was in contrast to the relatively peaceful 2015 elections that
brought Buhari into his first term in office. According to a report by
SBM I ntelligence, which monitors socio-political and economic
developments in Nigeria, 626 people were killed during the 2019
election cycle, starting with campaigns in 2018.
Kano state, in northwestern Nigeria, has the highest number of
registered voters in th e country. Rivers state, in the Niger Delta,
receives the largest share of crude -oil-based national revenue,
representing significant electoral value to any political party. The
history of elections in both states is replete d with violence by criminal
elements. Human Rights Watch focused its research on both states in
view of projections and reports of violence during the 2019 elections.
Despite police claims of increased security measures to ensure peaceful
voting, there seems to have been little police re sponse to reports of
threats and acts of violence by hired political thugs and soldiers against
voters and election officials, Human Rights Watch found.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION E.K. Enojo
148
On March 15, the spokesperson for the Independent National Electoral
Commission (INEC), Festus Okoye, a ccused security agents of
intimidation and unlawful arrest of election officials in the state.
Banditry and the recurring cycles of deadly violence between
herdsmen and farmers appear to have taken the lives of thousands.
According to civil society reports , over 3,641 people have died from
deadly clashes between herdsmen and farmers since 2015 and at least
262 people have been killed by bandits since the beginning of 2019 in
Zamfara State alone. The government deployed 1,000 military troops to
the state in response, but few of those responsible for the violence have
been arrested or held to account. The northeast conflict with Boko
Haram and its splinter groups also remains one of Buhari’s pressing
challenges. Although Boko Haram’s territorial control has sh runk to
small pockets of villages around Lake Chad as a result of sustained
government military action since 2015, the group continues to carry
out attacks against civilian s and military targets in the region and in
neighboring Niger, Cameroon, and Chad.
Renewed fighting between Nigerian government forces and a faction of
Boko Haram, known as Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP),
has led to secondary displacement of civilians. According to the United
Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitar ian Affairs (OCHA),
more than 27,000 civilians have died and about 1.8 million people have
been displaced since the beginning of the conflict in 2009.Nigeria’s
elections have historically been fraught with controversy, violence, and
other abuses, with the 2015 elections, widely believed to have been
largely free of violence, bucking this trend. There were reports of voter
intimidation and violence around the 2019 elections at both the federal
and state levels, including armed men hired by candidates and pol itical
parties.
Bauchi, Benue, Kano, Sokoto, Plateau, and Rivers states were
particularly affected by violence during the March 9 gubernatorial
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Security Challenges in Conducting Elections in Nigeria:
149
elections. The Independent National Electoral Commission cancelled
elections in places where the elections were disrupted, and held
supplementary elections later. Kano state had supplementary elections
on March 23, and Rivers state on April 13. Kano and Rivers states were
probably the worst hit of the six states. They we re identified by both
local and international analysts ahead of the elections as holding great
potential for electoral violence. Both are major political strongholds for
the two leading political parties, Buhari’s ruling All Progressives
Congress (APC) and the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP).
Abdullahi Ganduje of the APC won the 2019 election in Kano, and
Nyesom Wike of the PDP won in Rivers State.
Summary, Conclusion and Recommendations
The summary of our discussions appears drastically frustra ting with
reference to the degree of violence against the NYS C adhoc staff
members especially in the conduct of elections in Nigeria from 1999 -
2019. The conclusion is that, apart from deaths, injuries and other
physical wounds sustained, the most traumatic is the psychological and
structural violence the y sustained in the conduct of elections. Two
reasons are presented, for using NYSC adhoc staff during elections .
Education and accountability are imperative in the conduct of elections,
and these qualities a re deposited in the NYSC members. The second is
identification, and all NYSC members have identification, because of the
national primary assignments. Unfortunately, these two intrinsic
qualities possessed by Corps members which qualifies them as adhoc
staff during election, have become potential threats to elements with
subversive characters and untoward behaviour.
The conclusion is that, the sophisticated nature of our political
architecture and engagement makes it extremely impossible to
completely erad icate electoral violence and other forms of insecurity
during elections, especially as this sordid and absurdity affect NYSC
adhoc staff members, during each election conducted. We are not
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION E.K. Enojo
150
subscribing to total impossibility of violence free elections in Ni geria,
and consequently, we have the following recommendations that:
 Adequate security arrangement should be provided for NYSC
adhoc staff members during election duties.
 Culprits especially during the conduct of an elections should be
arrested, tried and punished to serve as deterrent to others
with criminal tendencies,
 CCTV should be installed at all polling centres to enable law
enforcement agents record the activities, violence and identities
of those that commit such crimes, and finally;
 Aside from lawful prosecution of perpetrators of violence
during elections, appropriate compensations should be paid by
political parties and their agents (thugs) to affected NYSC adhoc
staff members involved in the conduct of elections .This would
help reduce the fru stration and anger associated with the
structural violence sustained during the conduct of elections
and serve as a deterrent to perpetrators of violence during
elections.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Security Challenges in Conducting Elections in Nigeria:
151
References
Adisa, P. (1990) The Culture of Political Violence and Assassinations in
Africa. Enugu: Fourth Dimension Publishers
Agara, T. (2009) “The Intensification and Changing Nature of African
Conflicts in Post-Cold
War Era”. Igbinedion Journals of Diplomacy and Strategy, Volume 1,
Number 1, November
Ake, C. (2002) “The Marginalisation of Africa: Notes on Productive
Confusion”. Volume 5, Number 5, March – June Edition
Akpotor, S. (2009) Political Violence in Africa and Its Implications on
Nation Building in Nigeria. Ibadan: University Press
Dudley, B. (1985) Instability and Political Order: Politics and Crisis in
Nigeria. Ibadan: Ibadan University Press
Dudley, B. (1987) Introduction to Nigerian Government and Politics.
Bloomington. Indiana University Press
Dudley, B. (1968) Parties and Politics in Northern Nigeria. London:
Frank Case Publication
Egwu, S. and Jibril, A. (2006) Defending the Peoples Mandate: Election
2007. Abuja: Global Rights Campaign Project Publications
Egwu, S. (2004) Ethnic and Religious Violence in Nige ria. Abuja: Africa
Centre for Democratic Governance Press
Egwu, S. (2003) Electoral Violence and Democratisation Project. The
Nigerian Experience. London: Fredrick Ebert Stirling Press
Egwu, S. (2001) Political Violence in Northern Nigeria. Jos: University of
Job Publications
Enojo, K (2018) Political Violence and the Quest for National
Development, Kogi Journal of Politics, Publication of the
Department of Political Science, Volume 3, Number 2,
FGN (1950) “Proceedings of the General Conference on the Re view of
the Constitution
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION E.K. Enojo
152
FGN (1963) Federal Republic of Nigeria Report of the Proceedings of
the General Election and Disturbances
FGN (2001) “Federal Republic of Nigeria Draft National Youth Policy
and Strategic Plan of Action.” National Youth Summit in Abuja
FGN (2011) Federal Republic of Nigeria Electoral Act
Guyer, B. (2010) “Political Violence and Instability of Nigerian Politics.
http://www.gamji.com/news213318.html
McCormick, A. (2001) The Study of Global Comparative Politics. New
York: Oxford University Press
Nnoli, O. (2003) Introduction to Politics. Enugu: Fourth Dimension
Publications
Nnoli, O. (1995) Ethnic Politics in Nigeria. Enugu: Fourth Dimension
Publications
Nsongola-Ntalaja, G. (1997) The State and Political Violence in Africa.
Harare: Print Holdings Publication
Ihovbere, J. (2003) “Political Violence in Fledging Democracy”, Public
Lecture Delivered under the auspices of the Breeze Magazine
and Lagos State Ministry of Information, March, 14
Osaghae, E. (1994) “Urban Violence in Africa ”, French Institute for
Research in Africa (IFRA) University of Ibadan.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Youth Restiveness in Nigeria and its Effect on the NYSC Scheme
153
10
Youth Restiveness in Nigeria and Its Effects on the
NYSC Scheme
Nta, Abasiama Joseph
and
Udoh Sebastine
Introduction
Youth restiveness in Nigeria has been a reoccurring issue in recent
times. There has  been an increase  in the  occurrence  of acts  of
violence  and  lawlessness, including  things  like hostage -taking  of
prominent  citizens  and expatriate ; oil  workers, as  well  as  oil
bunkering,  arms  insurgence,  cultism, bomb blasts, and abduction.
Youths are regarded as the foundation of the society hence they are
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Nta, A . J. and U. Sebastine
154
important to the future of any nation. Their inventiveness, character
and orientation define the pace of development and security of a
nation.  Through their creative talents and labour power, a nation
makes giant strides in economic development and socio -political
attainments.
In  their  dreams  and hopes, a nation founds  her motivation;  on  their
energies, she  builds  her vitality  and  purpose.  And because of their
dreams and aspirations, the future of a nation is ass ured.
1
Incidence of
youth restiveness in Nigeria has affected Nigeria's security and
sustainable development including the National Youth Service Corps
(NYSC) which is a programme set up by the Nigerian government to
involve Nigerian graduates in nation bu ilding and the development of
the country. In a bid to reconstruct, reconcile and rebuild the country
after the Nigerian Civil war, the National Youth Service Corps was
established by decree No.24 of 22nd May 1973 with a view to the
proper encouragement an d development of common ties among the
youths of Nigeria and the promotion of national unity.
2
As a developing country, Nigeria is plagued by the problems of
underdevelopment which includes: poverty, mass illiteracy, acute
shortage of high skilled manpower (coupled with most uneven
distribution of the skilled people that are available), inadequate
socioeconomic infrastructural facilities, housing, Water and sewage
facilities, roads, healthcare services, and effective communication
system. These problems ess entially affect the economic development
programmes of the country . This paper is therefore an attempt to bring
to limelight the role of the NYSC in tackling youth restiveness in Nigeria
1
A. O Ozohu, “The Nigerian Youth in Contemporary Political Development:
Relevance, Challenges and Role Expectation”, Journal of Constitutional
Development , Vol. 6, No.4, 2006, 97 -98.
2
NYSC, “Summative Evaluation Report of Ten ears of the National Youth Se rvice
Corps in Nigeria” Lagos: Directorate of the National Youth Service Corps , 1983.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Youth Restiveness in Nigeria and its Effect on the NYSC Scheme
155
and advancing the cause of development in Nigeria through its
objectives.
Conceptual Clarifications
Youth: Nigerian  youth  can  be  defined  as  persons  between  ages  18 -
35,  the  target youth  group  for  this  study  are  young  Nigerian
graduates,  eligible  to  participate  in  the National Youth Service Corps
(NYSC) programme i.e. persons  between ages 18-30.
3
National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Programme: The NYSC was
established in 1973 as a post -civil-war strategy in Nigeria, with a view
to promote the development of common ties among the youths of
Nigeria and the promotion of national unity.
4
Despite the fact that the
NYSC was essentially established by a military regime as a strategy for
the implementation of the reconstruction, rehabilitation, and
reconciliation agenda of Nigeria’s post -war economy,  it remains
relevant as an apex youth organization in Nigeria’s democratic era, that
enforces the policies of national development through the
mobilization,  deployment,  and  development  of  youth.
5
As a foremost
national  youth development programme in  sub -Saharan  Africa,  the
relevance  of  the  N YSC Scheme cannot  be overemphasized  as  it
stands as a critical platform where educated Nigerian  youths develop
their potentials and contribute towards the realization of national
development agenda.
Youth Restiveness:  this  can  be  defined  as  a combination  of  any
action  or  conduct  that  constitutes unwholesome  socially
unacceptable activities  engaged   by  the  youths of any  community.
6
It
3
NYSC, “Summative Evaluation Report of Ten ears of the National Youth...
4
NYSC, “Summative Evaluation Report of Ten ears of the National Youth...
5
NYSC, “Summative Eva luation Report of Ten ears of the National Youth...
6
A. O Ozohu, “The Nigerian Youth in Contemporary Political Development:
Relevance...92.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Nta, A . J. and U. Sebastine
156
can  also  be  referred  to  as  a  despicable  act  which  is being
perpetrated  by  a  significant  proportion  of  youths  whose activities
have  led  to  a  near  breakdown  of  law  and  order and low
productivity  due to disruption  of  production activities.
Causes of Youth Restiveness in Nigeria
Youths are the most active  segment s of any  society,  youth  are the
major determiners  of  peace and  stability  of  a  nation.
7
Conversely,
the degree of disorderliness and instability in society is also
determined in part by youth . Although youth restiveness is not
generally new in Nigeria, it is presumed to be as a result of catalogue of
closely related factors. Some of the presumed factors include poverty,
bad governance, unemployment, inadequate educational opportunities
and resources, lack of basic infrastru cture, and inadequate information
and communication flow.
More than seventy percent of  people  in Nigeria  are in abject  poverty,
living  below  the  poverty  line, and one third survive  on less than US
$1  dollar a day.
8
This  figure includes youths in  urban  centres  in
Nigeria  who  struggle to make  a living by  hawking  chewing  sticks,
beverages, handkerchiefs, belts, etc. The  sales -per-day  and  the  profit
margin  on  such  goods  are so  small  that  they  can  hardly  live above
the  pover ty  line.  Disillusioned, frustrated, and dejected, they seek an
opportunity to express their anger against the state.
9
There is  a link
amongst poverty,  loss  of livelihood, inequality,  and  youth restiveness
as  evidenced  by  the numerous  violent p rotests  against the wielders
of  power  in Nigeria. Poverty  in  Nigeria  remains  significant and
despite  high  economic  growth over the years, Nigeria 's socio-cultural
7
N. Onyekpe, “Managing Youth at Election” Journal of Constitutional
Development , Vol. 7, No.1, 2007, 76 -87.
8
D. Amorawo, “Mal -distribution and Poverty as Factors in the Crises of the Nigeria
State” Journal of Constitutional Development , Vol. 1, No.2, 2000, 1 -3.
9
R. Hassan, and P. Birungi, “Social Capital and Poverty in Uganda”, Development
Southern Affrica, Vol.3,No .1, 2011, 19 -37.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Youth Restiveness in Nigeria and its Effect on the NYSC Scheme
157
environment has become very unstable and  is sending  signal s of
insecurity  on daily  basis.
Despite making huge revenue from oil exploration over the years,
Nigeria is still referred to as one of the poorest countries in the world.
10
This often makes it's citizens to ponder how much of this revenue
actually found its way into the re gion where this oil is produced as the
areas of investment in infrastructure or the development of human
capital such as economic growth is yet to translate to economic
development and an appreciable increase in the standard of living of
the Nigerian masses. Poverty  and  youth  restiveness  are  two concepts
that are related because  one  cannot  exist  without  the  other,  it  is as
a  result  of  poverty  that  most  youths become  restive  in  the  society.
Many Nigerian youths are concerned about their future which they
considered to be under serious threat . They are concerned about basic
amenities such as inadequate electricity supply, bad roads, and the
distorted academic calendar, poor security and enabling environment
for entrepreneurship.
11
Good governance is required for the growth
and development of any nation . Where good leadership is in short
supply, societal challenges manifest in form of social vices.
Unemployment is one of the challenging features among the youth in all
developing countries. The rate of youth unemployment in Nigeria is
alarming. Unemployment is an unwanted social trend and its effects on
the aggrieved youth naturally breed crime. The despicable situation of
Nigeria's unemployment status has worsened . The problem of bad
governance and corruption among political leadership in Nigeria since
her independence in 1960 is partly responsible for this unfortunate
10
I. Hagler, Nigeria: After the Nightmare , Maryland: University Press of America
Inc, 2011,98.
11
Claude Ake, Political Economy of Africa, Ibadan: Ibadan University Press, 1987.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Nta, A . J. and U. Sebastine
158
development.
12
Since Independence, no political leadership has fully
honoured its promises of sustaining the growth and development of the
national economy in  way that would provide job  opportunities and
addressed the problem of un employment especially among the youth
population. To worsen  the  unemployment  situation  in  Nigeria,
tertiary  institutions  in  Nigeri a  annually  turn  out many  graduates
into  the  over -saturated  labour market  with  little  or  no employment
opportunities available. Some of the graduates are actually
unemployable due to their poor capacity to live up to expectations in
the contemporary economy.
13
Hence, material hardships, physiological
and psychological damage due to unemployment are likely to be issues
of growing concerns among the youth population in Nigeria. In  the
absence  of  any  meaningful  job  to sustain  them, some  of  them
settle  for  the  many obnoxious  trades  such  as  child  trafficking,
prostitution, internet fraud  etc,  to  make  ends  meet. Most  youths  idle
away  due  to  high  rate  of unemployment  in  the  country.
14
Many
graduates roam the st reets on daily basis looking for jobs that are not
readily available.
12
R.N. Amarachukwu, “The Challenges of Quality Education and Good Governance
in Developing Economy, African Journal of Education and Technology , Vol.1, No.3,
103-110.
13
B. Ajujo, “The Rising Youth Unemployment in Nigeria: Effective Career Guidance
a Panacea ” Journal of International Multidisciplinary , Vol.7, No.1, 2013, 307 -321.
14
O. Ajaegbu, “Rising Youth Unemployment and Violent Crimes in Nigeria”
American Journal of Social Issues and Humanities , Vol.2, No.5, 2012, 315 -317.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Youth Restiveness in Nigeria and its Effect on the NYSC Scheme
159
Figure 10.1: Unemployment Rate in Nigeria
Source: Labour Force Statistics – National Bureau of Statistics, 2017.
Some of them become willing tools and are hired for thuggery or
assassins mostly for political reasons.  Others  end  up  as  armed
robbers thereby aggravating the problem of  insecurity in the  society .
Some of the job -seekers in Nigeria do not have any additional skill for
self-reliance. As a result of seeming ly shattered dreams and
expectations they engaged in so many criminal activities and other
deviant behaviours . The alarming rate of youth unemployment  has
prompted Government to establish a number of empowerment
agencies as well as adopt various  measure s  and  strategies  such  as
Poverty Alleviation  Programme,  National  Directorate  of Employment
(NDE),  Industrial  Training  Fund (ITF) and recently the National Social
Investment Programme among many others. Inadequate job
opportunities are the majo r cause of youth restiveness which to a large
Youth Restiveness in Nigeria and its Effect on the NYSC Scheme
159
Figure 10.1: Unemployment Rate in Nigeria
Source: Labour Force Statistics – National Bureau of Statistics, 2017.
Some of them become willing tools and are hired for thuggery or
assassins mostly for political reasons.  Others  end  up  as  armed
robbers thereby aggravating the problem of  insecurity in the  society .
Some of the job -seekers in Nigeria do not have any additional skill for
self-reliance. As a result of seeming ly shattered dreams and
expectations they engaged in so many criminal activities and other
deviant behaviours . The alarming rate of youth unemployment  has
prompted Government to establish a number of empowerment
agencies as well as adopt various  measure s  and  strategies  such  as
Poverty Alleviation  Programme,  National  Directorate  of Employment
(NDE),  Industrial  Training  Fund (ITF) and recently the National Social
Investment Programme among many others. Inadequate job
opportunities are the majo r cause of youth restiveness which to a large
Youth Restiveness in Nigeria and its Effect on the NYSC Scheme
159
Figure 10.1: Unemployment Rate in Nigeria
Source: Labour Force Statistics – National Bureau of Statistics, 2017.
Some of them become willing tools and are hired for thuggery or
assassins mostly for political reasons.  Others  end  up  as  armed
robbers thereby aggravating the problem of  insecurity in the  society .
Some of the job -seekers in Nigeria do not have any additional skill for
self-reliance. As a result of seeming ly shattered dreams and
expectations they engaged in so many criminal activities and other
deviant behaviours . The alarming rate of youth unemployment  has
prompted Government to establish a number of empowerment
agencies as well as adopt various  measure s  and  strategies  such  as
Poverty Alleviation  Programme,  National  Directorate  of Employment
(NDE),  Industrial  Training  Fund (ITF) and recently the National Social
Investment Programme among many others. Inadequate job
opportunities are the majo r cause of youth restiveness which to a large
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Nta, A . J. and U. Sebastine
160
extent has serious negative multiplier effects on the socio -economic
and political development of Nigeria as a nation-state.
15
Inadequate educational opportunities are another major factor that
triggers youth restiveness.
16
Education is any  act  or  experience  that
has  a  foundational  effect  on  the  mind,  character  or physical
capacity  of  an  individual.
Some  of  the  challenges faced in Nigeria educational system that
contribute to youth restivene ss  are  centred  on  funding and  secure
environment whereby the  schools  and  teachers  could  do  their
work  effectively in a conducive atmosphere .
17
Quality education has a
direct bearing on national prestige, greatness , and cohesion.  The
knowledge  and skill  that  young  people  acquire help determine  their
degree of  patriotism  and contribution to  national  integration  and
progress. The  after effect of poor education in Nigeria has led  to the
situation whereby thousands  of  young  peop le roam  the streets  in
cities  in Nigeria and some Students who  manage to complete
secondary  school could not proceed to tertiary institutions due lack of
funding. As a result of this , they are disorientated and readily available
for antisocial activities.
18
Inadequate basic infrastructure is another major setback that have
contributed to youth restiveness in Nigeria. The importance of
infrastructure to the industrial sector of any economy cannot be
overlooked, thus making its development key to the su rvival of the
15
E. Okafor, “Youth Unemployment and Implication for Stability  of Development
in Nigeria” Journal of Sustainable Development in Africa , Vol.13, No.1, 2011.
16
I. Okonkwo, Poverty and Unemployment Alleviation Strategies in Nigeria , Lagos:
American Publishers, 2005
17
P. Ogunyoni and B. Oginni, “Youth Self Reliance Programmes and
Unemployment Challenges in a Development Economic: A Nigeria Case” Journal of
Economic Research and Global Business , Vol. 2, No.3, 2013, 18
18
P. Ogunyoni and B. Oginni, “Youth Self Reliance Pr ogrammes and
Unemployment…18.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Youth Restiveness in Nigeria and its Effect on the NYSC Scheme
161
sector.  Poor infrastructure is a factor responsible for stunted growth of
the Nigeria’s economy . The only way out of the economic doldrums is
conscious massive investment in infrastructure by all levels of
government in the country.
19
Apart f rom providing paying jobs for the
teeming Nigerian youth s, infrastructural development will certainly
integrate the country and place it on the path of fast growing
economies across the globe.
Many rural communities  and urban slums  in Nigeria have  no  access
to  potable  water, primary health centres, electricity, communication
and commercial  facilities,  etc. Behind  social unrest and  youth
restiveness  in the  country  is  the  agitation for equ itable distribution
of  resources.
20
Inadequate information and communication flow is a major factor that
has contributed to youth restiveness in Nigeria.
21
Communication
creates room for sharing information . It  helps  people express  their
thoughts  and feelings, clarify  problems, and  consider  alternative
ways  of  coping  or adapting  to  their  situation. It also promotes social
cohesion where people have access to communication facilities ,
communicate and influence decision making.
22
Effects of Youth Restiveness in Nigeria
The incidence of marginalization, denial of social right s, environmental
degradation and economic devastation activities had triggered off the
irate youths in Nigeria to engage in all sorts of restiveness to demand
19
M. P. Todaro, Economics for a Developing World, London: Longman Group
Limited, 1979.
20
A. O Ozohu, “The Nigerian Youth in Contemporary Political Development:
Relevance...101
21
F. Ajegbomogun, “Information Availabilty and the Internet use in Public Library ,
Journal of Information Science, Vol.7, No.1, 2008,65 -74.
22
E. Curras, “Information as a Fifth Element that Influence on the Culture of the
People” Journal of Information Science Vol. 13, No.3, 1987, 27 -36
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Nta, A . J. and U. Sebastine
162
for of their perceived rights . This situation is largely responsible for
abduction, hostage taking and kidnapping of oil expatriates and as well
as banditry in parts of the country. Democracy will be difficult to thrive
in crises. The leaders would spend the time they would have used to
formulate policies for good governance in addressing avoidable
conflicts and investing hard earned resources in rebuilding
infrastructure destroyed by youth restivenes s. The situation would not
also encourage international cooperation. Many foreign investor s
would also not be willing to invest in a vulnerable and crisis prone
economy.
23
Youth restiveness has serious and lasting effects on the
physical, mental, and socia l health of young people. It is a leading cause
of death for young people in Nigeria.
24
Youth restiveness negatively impacts perceived and actual safety,
participation in community events, school attendance, and viability of
businesses.
25
Youth restiveness accounts  for  most  of  the  social
crimes  perpetrated  by  youth  in  the  Nigerian society  today. The rise
in violent  crime  such  as  robbery,  kidnapping, thuggery,  terrorism
among  others,  committed  by  the  youth  is  a  sign  of gap s in the
society. In the long run, youth restiveness will result in  people
engaging in illegitimate  activities in  order  to actualize their
expectations  in the  society. Kidnappings has become a very lucrative
business and could be seen as a by -product of you th restiveness across
the country.
26
23
O.S. Elegbeleye , “Recreational Facilities in Schools: A Panacea for Youth
Restiveness, Journal of Human Ecology, Vol. 18, No.2, 2005, 93 -98.
24
B. Girigin, Issues in the Problems of Youth Restiveness: Niger DeltaI, Owerri:
Springfield Publishers, 2007, 22.
25
H. Igbo and I .Ikpa, “Causes, Effects and Ways of Curbing Youth Restiveness in
Nigeria: Implication of Counseling” Journal of Education and Practice , Vol.4, No.3,
131-138.
26
O. Uriah, and P. Egbezor, “Academic Background, Socio -economic Status and
Gender Implications f or Youth Restiveness and Educational Development”
International Journal of Applied Sociology , Vol.5, No.1, 2015, 16 -19.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Youth Restiveness in Nigeria and its Effect on the NYSC Scheme
163
Youth restiveness drives vulnerable individuals in to living against the
provisions of the law as a desperate means of survival as well as
avenue for expressing dissatisfaction with the perceived apparent
neglect of their existence.
27
Youth restiveness affects the economy a
number of ways . First of all, it  increases  the  cost  of  doing  business
and  in  providing  public services as  it  has  become  necessary  that
armed  guards must  be  hired  for  protection of lives while on  duty.
Secondly, resources  which  would have  been  invested  in the funding
of critical sectors of the economy such as education,  health, agriculture
and  in  the  provision s of  other  essential  services will be diverted
into  crime  prevention  and  procurement  of  relief  materials  for  the
displaced  persons.
Finally, the increase in crime rate and youth restiveness could lead to
collapse and or relocation of business enterprises from one location to
another.
Effects of Youth Restiveness on the National Youth Service Corps
The nature of youth restiveness in Nigeria has spiral effect on the
operations of the NYSC both in scope and dimension. It was reported
that the November 2012 Orientation Course was postponed in
Adamawa, Borno and Yobe States due to reported issues of insecurity.
28
The effects of youth restiveness on NYSC in Nigeria, can also be seen
manifested in the number of relocation requests from Corps members
who wish to be relocated  to  other  states,  wh ere  the  wind  of  safety
is higher . However, it is heartwarming to note a good number of Corps
members are currently serving in all parts of the country and utilizing
the security services provided by NYSC that sufficiently guarantee
peaceful participation in the national service experience.
27
O. Uriah, and P. Egbezor, “Academic Background, Socio -economic Status
and…32.
28
D. Aladelokun, “Bishop Seeks Scrapping of NYSC Scheme” The Nation , April 22,
2011, 4.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Nta, A . J. and U. Sebastine
164
The Role OF NYSC in Curbing Youth Restiveness in Nigeria
The National Youth Service Corps is  viewed  as  a  strong  incentive  for
the promotion of national cohesion and nation building. NYSC  Scheme
is  a  compul sory  one -year  programme  that  mobilizes  all young
(international  and  local)  university  and  polytechnic  graduates
between  who are not above 30 years  of  age at the point of graduation.
The  only  exemptions  are those  that have served  in  th e  armed
forces,  the  Nigerian  Police  Forces, other  national  security agencies
and national honours and merit award recipients. The  NYSC  scheme
has  since  assumed  multiple  mandates  with  focus  on  youth
development,  national  integration  an d infrastructural development..
29
Over the years, NYSC has Inculcated  discipline  in  Nigerian  youths  by
instilling  in  them  a  tradition  of industry  at  work  and  of  patriotic
and  loyal  service  to  the  nation  in  any situation they may find
themselves.
30
NYSC has raised the moral tone of our youths by  giving
them the opportunity to learn about higher ideals  of  national
achievement, social and cultural improvement . It has also develop  in
the  Nigerian  youths  the  attitudes  of  mind,  acquired  through shared
experience and  suitable  training, which  will  make  them  more
amenable to mobilization in the national  interest.
31
The Scheme has contributed to the accelerated growth of  the national
economy through making youths to  acquire  the  spirit  of  self -reliance
by  encouraging them to develop skills  for  self -employment. The skills
acquired for self employment will help in curbing unemployment
which is one of the major cause s of youth restiveness. In Enugu state, a
female Corps member had her service year in Enugu, and did not leave
after the service; she established a bakery in the state because of the
skills she acquired from NYSC Skills Acquisition and Entrepren eurship
Department (SAED) programme. She is currently a successful business
29
NYSC “National Youth Service Corps Handbook”...
30
NYSC “National Youth Service Corps Decree No. 5 of 1993, Abuja:NYSC, 1993
31
NYSC “National Youth Service Corps Handbo ok”...
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Youth Restiveness in Nigeria and its Effect on the NYSC Scheme
165
woman and supplying bread for NYSC Camp in Enugu. The Scheme has
indeed help in removing prejudices,  eliminate  ignorance  and  confirm
at first hand the many  similarities  among Nigerians  of  all ethnic
groups which has helped to develop  a  sense  of corporate existence
and  common  destiny  of  the people  of  Nigeria. Mohammed Bawa, an
ex-Corps member at Umunya Camp in Anambra State explains that
before he was mobilized fo r national service, he thought that the Igbo’s
were money conscious and can do anything including ritual killings to
acquire wealth, love themselves at the detriment of other ethnic
groups.
He testified that it was the NYSC scheme that exposed him to the
uniqueness and enterprising and hospitality nature of Igbo culture and
people. He was eventually endeared to the people and made so many
friends across the South East geo-political zone. The Scheme has indeed
helped Nigeria n youths to understand that the negative effects of crisis
as a result of youth restiveness will in the long run affect their future;
be it in form of ethnic or religious conflict. NYSC Scheme has served as a
pathway  and  platform  that facilitates youth  transition  into
productive  adulthood  and  effective  citizenship.
41
The expected
outcomes  of  youth  participation  in  the  NYSC  programme  includes
but not limited  to  psychosocial  and  character  development which
has helped curtail youth restiveness in the country.
NYSC has helped in inculcating positive attitudes in the Nigerian youths
through giving them orientation  on inter -ethnic and religious
tolerance  through  enhanced  cognitive  and perceptual  shifts  that
seeks  to  eliminate  discriminatory  practices and  manage  conflicts.
The Scheme has helped in the creation  of  platforms  for  youths  to
gain  practical  experience,  reflexive learning  and  exit  opportunities,
competence,  skills (both  soft  and  technical),  and  social  capital
development, improved  levels  of  patriotism  and  citizenship  through
awareness,  loyalty,  and  sense  of belonging.
42
Mercy Akpan, a Corps
member serving in Kaduna State attested to the fact that without NYSC
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Nta, A . J. and U. Sebastine
166
she would not have known how to  relate with people of different
ethnic groups and family backgrounds. The NYSC experience has taught
her how to manage individual differences and mutual respect.
The NYSC Scheme has also helped the youth population in the area of
entrepreneurship training through orientation programmes  as  well
as in the deployment  and utilization of  youth  capabilities in the
national  interest. This has made NYSC an outstanding and invaluable
Scheme that has helped in transforming the lives of Nigerian youths as
positive agents in na tional development agenda. This transformation
has helped immensely in controlling youth restiveness in the country
because youths who are gainfully employed rarely participate in
antisocial activities.
The NYSC Scheme facilitate social integration through the provision of
opportunities for cross cultural interaction that has led to inter -ethnic
marriages. This has further help in reducing inter-ethnic stereotypes
and mutual suspicions which are inimical to national unity and
development. The Scheme also serves as an employment buffer where
number Corps members eventually secured employments in their
places of primary assignments after the service year . This has helped in
limiting youth restiveness as unemployment is one of the major cause s
of youth restiveness in Nigeria.
The NYSC scheme instills in the Nigerian youths a sense of patriotism
through participation in the scheme . The national service experience
exposes youth Corps members to the practice of obeying the clarion
call and other national s ymbols such as NYSC and National flags,
Anthems and other relevant issues of national significance. All these
have contributed in no small measure to curb youth restiveness by
instilling in Nigeria n youths the spirit of patriotism and nationalism. In
addition, NYSC as a scheme through various community development
service efforts has created the necessary enlightenment where the
youths and other members of the host communities were empowered
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Youth Restiveness in Nigeria and its Effect on the NYSC Scheme
167
on so many issues of development. It presents host community
members with information required to guide their actions promoting
peace and unity in a multi ethnic and heterogeneous society. This will
reduce the frequency of violence, acrimony, and confront ation
associated with youth restiveness.
In addition to providing job opportunities, NYSC creates enabling
environment for acquiring skills for career development. Most
programmes organized by the scheme help  provide career  guidance
and counselling and will  help reduce  the  number  of  idle, frustrated
youths that would be willing tools and vulnerable to acts of violence
and other forms of youth restiveness in the society in the society.
NYSC serves as a change agent, a promoter of ideas and opinions. It is
the responsibility o f leaders to ensure that youth have access to
information and orientation that will guide their actions. Most Nigerian
youths who participate in civil unrest across the country are basically
uninformed and acting based on ignorance . Indeed, NYSC has playing a
major role in curbing youth restiveness in Nigeria through the conduct
of various orientation activities focusing on awareness creation and
sensitisation of youth Corps members on the need to real ise that the
future is brighter, it belongs to them and must not be destroyed . This
sensitisation also exposes them to the reality that  the  future  and  its
nature  depends on  the  decisions  and  choices  they make.
More so , the NYSC scheme through its orientation programme has
given a sense of history, especially of the noble and heroic
contributions of the youths in the past to the development of Nigeria .
In comparison with the ignoble role of many youth today, NYSC has
been sensitising the youths on the need to embrace the rule of law and
democratic ideals.
32
The scheme has liberated a lot of Nigerian youths
psychologically and mentally from the control of self -seeking business
32
O. Gbosi, and .A. Ihugba, “Unemployment and Nigerian Economic Growth”.
Mediterean Journal of Social Sciences , Vol.2 No 1. 2017, 67.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Nta, A . J. and U. Sebastine
168
and political elites by changing their orientation towards seeking
greater  employment  and  educational  opportunities  as  a  means  of
redirecting  their energies and  ideas  from  anti -social  activities  to
creative efforts . NYSC as a Scheme, is a catalyst and strategic
instrument for addressing youth related problems and other national
development agenda.
Conclusion
This paper has attempted to capture the role of NYSC in curbing youth
restiveness in Nigeria. The future belongs to youths who make
productive use of information and knowl edge. With sufficient
information and orientation through NYSC scheme, Nigerian youths can
develop their potentials and participate actively in nation building. To
effectively curb youth restiveness in Nigeria, NYSC would continue to
serve as a veritable p latform for increased accessibility of information
for skill acquisition, self -employment, job opportunities, and self -
reliance among Nigerian youths.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Youth Restiveness in Nigeria and its Effect on the NYSC Scheme
169
Bibliography
Official Report
NYSC, “Summative Evaluation Report of Ten ears of the National Youth
Service Corps in Nigeria” Lagos: Directorate of the National
Youth Service Corps, 1983.
NYSC “National Youth Service Corps Decree No. 5 of 1993, Abuja: NYSC,
1993
NYSC “National Youth Service Corps Handbook” , Abuja: NYSC, 1999.
Books
Bily Budlsy, An Introduction to Nigerian Government and Politics ,
London: Macmillan Press Limited, 1982.
Collier P., The Bottom Billion: Why the Poorest Countries are Failing
and what can be done about it , New York: Oxford University
Press, 1958.
Claude Ake, Political Economy of Africa, Ibadan: Ibadan University
Press, 1987.
Chinua Achebe, The Trouble with Nigeria, Enugu: Fourth Dimension
Publishers, 1983.
Hagler I., Nigeria: After the Nightmare , Maryland : University Press of
America Inc, 2011.
Girigin B., Issues in the Problems of Youth Restiveness: Niger Delta I,
Owerri: Springfield Publishers, 2007.
James Cauagham, A Divided House, London: Colins Publishers, 1982.
Okonkwo I., Poverty and Unemployment Alleviation Strategies in Nigeria,
Lagos:  American Publishers, 2005.
Todaro M., Economics for a Developing World, London: Longman Group
Limited, 1979.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Nta, A . J. and U. Sebastine
170
Journal
Amorawo D., “Mal -distribution and Poverty as Factors in the Crises of
the Nigeria State” Journal of Constitutional Development , Vol. 1,
No.2, 2000.
Ajegbomogun F., “Information Availability and the Internet use in
Public Library , Journal of Information Science, Vol.7, No.1, 2008.
Ajaegbu O., “Rising Youth Unemployment and Violent Crimes in
Nigeria” American Journal of Social Issues and Humanities , Vol.2,
No.5, 2012.
Ajujo B., “The Rising Youth Unemployment in Nigeria: Effective Career
Guidance a Panacea” Journal of International Multidisciplinary ,
Vol.7, No.1, 2013.
Amarachukwu R. N., “The Cha llenges of Quality Education and Good
Governance in Developing Economy, African Journal of
Education and Technology, Vol.1, No.3.
Curras E., “Information as a Fifth Element that Influence on the Culture
of the People” Journal of Information Science Vol. 13, No.3, 1987.
Elegbeleye O. S., “Recreational Facilities in Schools: A Panacea for Youth
Restiveness, Journal of Human Ecology, Vol. 18, No.2, 2005.
Hassan A., and P. Birungi, “Social Capital and Poverty in Uganda”,
Development Southern Affrica, Vol.3,No.1, 2011.
Gbosi O., and  Ihugba A., “Unemployment and Nigerian Economic
Growth”. Mediterean Journal of Social Sciences, Vol.2 No 1. 2017
Ozohu A., “The Nigerian Youth in Contemporary Political Development:
Relevance, Challenges and Role Expectation”, Journal of
Constitutional Development, Vol. 6, No.4, 2006.
Igbo H. and Ikpa I., “Causes, Effects and Ways of Curbing Youth
Restiveness in Nigeria: Implication of Counseling” Journal of
Education and Practice, Vol.4, No.3.
Onyekpe O., “Managing Youth at Election ” Journal of Constitutional
Development, Vol. 7, No.1, 2007.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Youth Restiveness in Nigeria and its Effect on the NYSC Scheme
171
Ogunyoni P. and Oginni B., “Youth Self Reliance Programmes and
Unemployment Challenges in a Development Economic: A
Nigeria Case” Journal of Economic Research and Global Business ,
Vol. 2, No.3, 2013.
Okafor E., “Youth Unemployment and Implication for Stability of
Development in Nigeria” Journal of Sustainable Development in
Africa, Vol.13, No.1, 2011.
Uriah O., and Egbezor P.“Academic Background, Socio -economic Status
and Gender Implications for Y outh Restiveness and Educational
Development” International Journal of Applied Sociology , Vol.5,
No.1, 2015.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Ineke, Ugbede Joseph
172
11
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and
Elections in Nigeria: Success, Challenges and
Prospects
Ineke, Ugbede Joseph
Introduction
There is no gain saying that the National Youth Service Corps stems
from the spirits of the 3R (Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and
Reintegration) instituted by General Gowon. Although this policy was
principally concerned with undoing the ills of the Civil War, the NYSC
Scheme was birthed by one of the three Rs. The Scheme went along
way to integrate the nation between 1973 to date. The Scheme had
played a much significant role in augmenting the lop -sidedness in the
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and Elections in Nigeria:
173
spread of trained manpower across the coun try, aside its integrative
score. Prior to the 1970s for instance, Nigeria was majorly challenged
by a structural imbalance in the distribution of skilled personnel.
According to the National Manpower Board, about 40 per cent of the
nation’s 57, 000 high level manpower excluding teachers were domicile
in Lagos.
1
It was also reported that in the medical sector, about 70 per
cent of the country’s medical and para -medical personnel were
basically employed in the few urban area s; principally in university
areas and state capitals. Hence, it took the timely intervention of the
NYSC mobilization, deployment and Posting Policies to deconcentrate
the conglomeration of high skilled personnel in a few state capital s into
other states of the federation and subsequently to the rural areas
across the country. This measure successfully contributed towards
debunking the stereotype about the rural areas as inhabitable places
for civilized people among the educated elites.
With the establishmen t of the Scheme in 1973 , the restriction of most
Nigerian youths in a geographical and ethnic enclave was fore closed
within ten years of the existence of the Scheme. This is because in 1986,
it was reported that 62 per cent of the Corps members had not vi sited
their places of deployment and primary assignment prior to their
service year. Towards the tail end of the 1980s for instance, majority of
the rural dwellers in the country became exposed to many of the social
derivatives that were associated with the Scheme. The Scheme has over
the years assisted many of the states and rural villages with deficient
manpower in filling the void. According to Ejela Emenako, both the
urban and rural areas in the country have benefitted considerably from
the contribution s of Corps members at the places of primary
1
See the National Manpower Board, (1964), High -Level Manpower 1963 -70,
Manpower Studies No. 2, cited in Folayan Ojo. (1977), Evaluation Report on Four
Years of the National Youth Service CorpsScheme , NYSC Directorate Headquarters,
Lagos. P.4
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Ineke, Ugbede Joseph
174
assignment and the entire host Communities .
2
Right from its year of
establishment, the Scheme became indispensable to states as a
constant source of quality manpower for both government and non -
governmental insti tutions, especially in schools.
3
In the defunct Bendel
state in 1982/83 for example, many of the rural health Schemes were
heavily dependent on the services of Corps medical doctors and their
teams for operation. Within this period more than seventeen mobi le
clinics in the rural communities in the state were manned exclusively
by the Scheme’s medical team.
4
It is important to also note that the broad objective of the Scheme aims
at ensuring the equitable distribution of members of the Service Corps
and the effective utilization of their skills in areas of national needs. It is
against this background that it was thought worthy to utilize the
availability of Corps members in virtually every part of Nigeria in
election related matters in 2011 in o rder to fores tall the reoccurrence
of the shortcomings of the 2007 General election. Suffice it to say that
this aspect of the Scheme’s intervention in national affairs is yet to
attract much study. This study is howeverconcerned with the
involvement of Corps members in elections in Nigeria since 2011.
An Overview of Elections in Nigeria, 1959-2007
Election is one of the critical issue s that is central to most of the crisis
in Nigeria since independence. According to Osumah, since 1959,
questions have been asked about elections integrity in the country.
5
2
Ejela Emenako (Ed.), (1986), 12 Years of National Youth Service Corps in Nigeria:
1973-1985, National Youth Service Corps Directorate Headquarters, Lagos. P. 82
3
Ejela Emenako (Ed.), (1986), 12 Years of National Youth Service Corps in Nigeria:
1973-1985, National Youth Service Corps Directorate Headquarters, Lagos. P. 82
4
Col. Obasa, P.K. (1995), NYSC: A Nations Attempt at Mobilising the Youths , MDL
Consultants Marketers, Ilorin. P. 71
5
Oarhe Osumah. 2016. Paradigm Shift: Youth Engagement in the Conduct of the
2015 Elections in Nigeria. Journal of African Elections . 5
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and Elections in Nigeria:
175
Both the Regional and Federal elections of 1964 and 1965 were
reportedly associated with allegations of widespread irregularities and
rigging, molestation of electoral officials, abduction of candidates, and
use of security agents to intimidate voters and facilitate election
malpractices in most part s of the country.
6
Suffice it to say tha t the
youths were the major actors in the rigging and rejection of the election
results. The political instability and cracks that followed, were partially
responsible for the 13 years of military intervention in the country
between 1966 and 1979. In spite of the fact that the 1979 election was
conducted under the watch of the military, the outcome of the election
was allegedly questioned and termed controversial to an extent that it
took the intervention of the Supreme Court for the issue to be laid to
rest.
7
This as a matter of fact, created the expectations and hope that
the country will stage a crisis free election in 1983 under the new
democratic dispensation. This hope was never sustained due to the
outcome of the General election staged in the Second Republic. This
was attributable to the fact that the elections was characterized by a
gross misuse of state power (incumbency), money, thuggery, violence,
rigging, and other election related malpractices. It was alleged that the
ruling National Party of Ni geria (NPN), in collaboration with the
Federal Electoral Commission (FEDECO), the police and other state
agents all manipulated the election process in favour of the NPN.
8
The
inability of the court to reverse most of the election results, fuelled
several waves of tension, arson, murder and instability in the country.
This development, hence, became one of the excused for the third
military intervention in governance in Nigeria on December 31
st
, 1983.
6
Oarhe Osumah. 2016. Paradigm Shift: Youth Engagement in the Conduct of the
2015 Elections in Nigeria. Journal of Africa n Elections . 5
7
Oarhe Osumah. 2016. Paradigm Shift: Youth Engagement in the Conduct of the
2015 Elections in Nigeria. Journal of African Elections . 6
8
Oarhe Osumah. 2016. Paradigm Shift: Youth Engagement in the Conduct of the
2015 Elections in Nigeria. Journal of African Elections , Vol. 15, No. 1. 6
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Ineke, Ugbede Joseph
176
This development closed the window of civil rule in the country until
1993 when the presidential election which was adjudged as the freest
and fairest in the history of the country was held. Despite the wide
legitimacy and credence of the election, the election was subsequently
annulled.
9
The inability of the v arious regimes and administrations in
the country to stage an acceptable and democratized elections since
independence until 1999 casted a thick shadow on elections in the
country to the extent that a strong public opinion was formed that the
government ir respective of the regime cannot give Nigerians a
legitimate election and leaders.
By 1999, Nigeria as a nation has had its fair share of transitions, from
the imposing colonial regime to elected administration s and from the
elected administrators to milita ry regimes and back to civil rule.
10
Irrespective of these forward and backward attempts at governance,
the country struggled to register an orderly transfer of power from one
civil rule to another until 1999.  With the return of democracy and a
new constitution after the long military intervention in politics and
governance in the country, t he country has since continue its search for
the consolidation of its democracy. This was kick -started by the
General Election of February 1999.The election was witnessed by both
local and international observers, including the Commonwealth Group
under the leadership of Sir Ketumile Masire. The election was adjudged
to be riddled with various irregularities but acclaimed to have reflected
the will of the Nigerian people.
11
According to Ezekiel Edogbanya, the
conduct of the 1999 election was not taken with ha rd feelings being the
first attempt at the transfer of power back to civil rule since the 1993.
He explained that it was hoped that subsequent elections under civilian
9
Oarhe Osumah. 2016. Paradigm Shift: Youth Engagement in the Conduct of the
2015 Elections in Nigeria. Journal of African Elections , Vol. 15, No. 1. 7
10
Emmanuel O. Ojo. Nigeria’s 2007 General Elections and Th e Succession Crisis:
Implications for the Nascent Democracy. 14
11
Nigeria General Elections, 23 February 2019. Commonwealth. 4
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and Elections in Nigeria:
177
administrations would avail the nation a reputable election with the
much needed credenc e in 2003 should the military allow the nascent
democracy to blossom. This expectations, was however, dashed by the
manner in which the 2003 General election was conducted.
The first Presidential elections organised under a civilian
administration was the April 2003 Election. The conduct of the election
according to Osumah was progressively worse than the 1999
elections.
12
This was despite the measures introduced by the 2002
Electoral Act which was introduced to forestall the eventualities of the
1999 electio ns. This was attested to by both local and international
observers. Since the return of democracy, the 2003 marked the
beginning of the mobilisation of youths to execute violence during and
after the election. In preparation for the election, there was a g eneral
apprehension which was attributed to the recruitment and arming of
militia groups as political mercenaries to harass and intimidate
political opponents, rig the elections, commit brigandage and organise
violent protests.
13
These anti -democratic attrib utes of the elections
were captured in the reports of the election observers. According to the
Commonwealth Observer Group, headed by former Tanzanian Prime
Minister and former Secretary -General of the Organisation of African
Unity (OAU), Dr. Salim Ahmed S alim, ‘in most of Nigeria, despite
significant challenges, a genuine and largely successful effort was made
to enable the people to vote freely and that in most of the country
12
Oarhe Osumah. 2016. Paradigm Shift: Youth Engagement in the Conduct of the
2015 Elections in Nigeria. Journal of African Electi ons, Vol. 15, No. 1. 9
13
Oarhe Osumah. 2016. Paradigm Shift: Youth Engagement in the Conduct of the
2015 Elections in Nigeria. Journal of African Elections , Vol. 15, No. 1. 9
….For instance, the major oppositions in Abia and Anambra States alleged that the
incumbent governors in the states were using the Bakassi Boys to settle political
scores which were initially instituted as a Vigilante group. There were concerns
and tensions that the governors were manipulating the group to rig elections or
safeguard ag ainst being rigged out in their re -election bid.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Ineke, Ugbede Joseph
178
conditions were such as to enable the will of the people to be
expressed. Howeve r, there were parts of Nigeria in which many
Nigerians were denied the right to participate in an authentic
democratic process’.
14
According to Daniel Okolo, most international
and local observers chose to be diplomatic and optimistic about the
future to an extent that they were reluctant to put the actual event to
paper in order not to dissuade Nigerians from disliking its nascent
democracy.
15
Hence, with each election, Nigerians became more
concerned with elongating civil rule regardless of the process throu gh
which the leaders emerged due to the desperacy to maintain civil rule.
This was the situation in the country at the eve of the 2007 election
which was to mark the first transfer of power from a civilian to another
civilian without any interruption from the military for the first time in 8
years.
The year 2007 was remarkable epoch in the history of the country
because it ushered the country into its first 8years of an attempt into
the practice and consolidation of democracy in the country, the longest
since independence.
16
The election in spite of its significance was
reported to be marred with serious electoral malpractices which
resulted in violence. According to Ojo, the election was generally
perceived as the worst in the history of the election administ ration in
Nigeria, with both domestic and international observers concluding
that it was badly flawed.
17
It was observed that with election in the
country, the standard and conduct of the election process kept getting
14
Nigeria General Elections, 23 February 2019. Commonwealth. 4
15
Ineke Okolo is a retired civil servant who has witnessed all the post
independence elections in Nigeria. He is over 75 years old. He was inter viewed at
Egume on 12 -02-2021
16
Emmanuel O. Ojo. Nigeria’s 2007 General Elections and The Succession Crisis:
Implications for the Nascent Democracy.21
17
Emmanuel O. Ojo. Nigeria’s 2007 General Elections and The Succession Crisis:
Implications for the Nasce nt Democracy. 21
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and Elections in Nigeria:
179
compromised and bastardized. The Commonwealth Observer Group for
instance, led by former Tanzanian Prime Minister, Justice Joseph
Warioba, in its report noted that:
‘the elections was a crucial test for the country’s young
democracy, but  an opportunity to take a major step
forward was missed…our overall impression of these
elections is that, in organisational terms, they fell short
of the standards Nigeria has achieved in 2003, and
certainly well below the standards for democratic
elections to which Nigeria has committed itself. We
believe that there were impediments in the ability of
voters to express their will fully, freely and fairly’.
18
This was corroborated by Alhaji Umaru Yar’ Adua, the Presidential
winner of the 2007 election who admitted that the country’s electoral
process lacke d credibility and that the 2007 elections fell short of
international standards.
19
According to Osumah, President Umaru Musa
Yar’ Adua even as a key beneficiary of the electoral fraud, during his
inauguration speech acknowledged that the conduct of the 2007
General election did not satisfy the conditions of best practices.
20
It was
however, this confession that inspired the President to set up an
Electoral Reform Committee in order to right the wrongs of the
previous elections which was fast becoming a norm i n the country’s
electoral process.
Be that as it may, the heavy manipulation of election results between
1999 and 2007 in the country was relatively, blamed on the use of
partisan youths as ad hoc staff for the election umpire and the
18
Nigeria General Elections, 23 February 2019. Commonwealth. 5
19
Emmanuel O. Ojo. Nigeria’s 2007 General Elections and The Succession Crisis:
Implications for the Nascent Democracy.21
20
Oarhe Osumah. 2016. Paradigm Shift: Youth Engagement in the Conduct of the
2015 Elections in Nigeria. Journal of African Elections , Vol. 15, No. 1. 10
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Ineke, Ugbede Joseph
180
mobilization of youth s as thugs. It was sequel to the above that the
country in conjunction with the National Youth Service Corps and the
Independent National Electoral Commission decided to incorporate
Corps members in the conduct and management of the country’s
electoral pro cess in 2011. The effects of this move will be discussed in
the next section where the involvement of the National Youth Service
Corps and the electoral process will be discussed.
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Electoral Process
In Nigeria, 2011 – 2019: Success, Challenges & Prospects
The 2011 election presented the country the opportunity to test run its
new approach to the conduct of elections and also an avenue for the
masses to gauge the commitment of the go vernment in its promise to
conduct a free and fair election. This was as a result of the progressive
decline in the conduct of elections in Nigeria since the return of
democracy in 1999.
21
It was against this background that prior to the
2011 General election, the country adopted a new framework for the
2011 election following the amendments to the electoral act and
constitution in 2010 and early 2011. These modifications were to
addressed the flaws in the framework that governed the 2007 polls and
further i ncorporated many recommendations proposed by the Election
Reform Committee (ERC) constituted after the 2007 elections. The new
law for instance provided for the declaration of results at each polling
units, better screening of election officials and separa tion of the federal
and state electoral cycles.
22
In order to improve the accuracy and
credibility of the voter register, INEC prior to the election, re -registered
all voters using a biometric data system that included a photograph and
complete set of finge rprints through the use of the members of the
21
Oarhe Osumah. 2016. Paradigm Shift: Youth Engagement in the Conduct of the
2015 Elections in Nigeria. Journal of African Elections . 2
22
2011 Nigerian Elections: National Democratic Institute for International Affairs.
Final Report. 2012. New York: National Democratic Institute. 7
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and Elections in Nigeria:
181
National Youth Service Corps. Prior to the commencement of the voters
registration, members of the National Youth Service Corps across the
country were trained by the Independent National Electoral
Commission o n the use and handling of the Direct Data Capturing
Device, the INEC Registration Platform, and other technicalities
associated with the registration process. In line with this, INEC
successfully registered 73, 528,040 Nigerians in three weeks.
23
This
was m ade possible due to the availability of NYSC Corps members in
communities and every Local Government Area in the country from
where they were further transferred to the different registration points
prior to the commencement of the voters registration exercise.
In pursuance of the above, the utilisation of the members of the
National Youth Service Corps as Registration Officer I and II in different
Local Government Areas (LGAs) as a matter of fact , in the anal of
elections in Nigeria, marked the first time in the history of elections in
Nigeria that over 90 per cent of the ad hoc staff recruited by the
electoral commission were drawn from a pool of university graduates
performing their one year of mandatory national service with the NYSC.
There is no gain sa ying that most of the people welcomed the decision
to use the Corps members, as they were seen as less dependent on the
government and less susceptible to party or local community influence.
As higher degree holders, their assumed computer literacy was
expected to facilitate the use of Direct Data Capture (DDC) machines
and other technical equipment during voter registration.
24
According to
the report of the National Democratic Institute for International Affairs
Report, many of the assumptions above were tr ue but it was observed
23
2011 Nigerian Elections: National Democratic Institute for International Affairs.
Final Report. 2012. New Yo rk: National Democratic Institute. 7
24
2011 Nigerian Elections: National Democratic Institute for International Affairs.
Final Report. 2012. New York: National Democratic Institute. 20
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Ineke, Ugbede Joseph
182
that some of the ad hoc staff had trouble operating the DDC machines
largely as a result of the inadequate training.
25
In the course of the 2011 elections however, the NYSC members made
up the majority of the 360 , 000 youths used as t emporal ad hoc staff
that operated the polling stations.
26
Out of the total number of the 360
000 ad hoc staff engaged, the members of the National Youth Service
Corps accounted for approximately 240, 000 of the non -partisan
participants that manned virtual ly each of the 120, 000 polling units in
the country.
27
These Corps members demonstrated patriotism,
commitment to democracy and at time s heroism during the electoral
process and they maintained positive attitudes and dedication despite
enormous obstacles. Most Corps members were exhausted from
overseeing the elections within the space of four weeks in a row and
sleeping in polling stations overnight before and after each election
day, and might havepaid out of their pockets for their transportation
and food when their stipends were delayed. Be that as it may, it should
be noted that the NYSC members increased public confidence through
their roles as poll workers and voter registration officials, as they were
seen as more neutral than past officials.
28
This wa s in addition to the
neutrality of the Corps members which gave credence to the election. It
was this that specifically, informed the recommendation of the National
Democratic Institutes (NDI) to recommend to INEC to ‘build
institutional expertise by incor porating the now -experienced NYSC ad
25
2011 Nigerian Elections: National Democratic Institute for Internatio nal Affairs.
Final Report. 2012. New York: National Democratic Institute. 20
26
2011 Nigerian Elections: National Democratic Institute for International Affairs.
Final Report. 2012. New York: National Democratic Institute. 20
27
Nigeria National Elections, A pril 2011. 2014. International Republican Institute.
Retrieved from www.iri.org , accessed on 20 -04-2021
28
2011 Nigerian Elections: National Democratic Institute for International Affairs.
Final Report. 2012. New York: Nati onal Democratic Institute. 60
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and Elections in Nigeria:
183
hoc poll workers as future trainers and INEC Staff.
29
The outcome of the
2011 General elections was succinctly captured in the report of the
Commonwealth Observer Group for the 2011 General Election under
the leadership of the former President of Botswana, Festus Mogae, who
noted that:
‘the 2011 elections marked a genuine celebration of
democracy in Africa’s most populous country and a key
member of the Commonwealth. As consequence,
previously held notions that Nigeria cannot hold flawed
elections are now being discarded and the country can
now shake off the stigma and redeem its image.
Notwithstanding the organisational deficiencies that
resulted in the elections, the election was acclaimed to
be the most credible and a r eflection of the will of the
Nigerian people’.
30
The success of the 2011 election s cannot as a matter of fact be
disassociated from the nature, composition and dynamics of the ad hoc
staff used in the election process by the Independent National Electoral
Commission. It should be recalled that the composition and dynamics
of the National Youth Service Corps is such that necessitates a relatively
even distribution of skilled graduates across the country in places that
are different from their place of origin. Hence, the fact that the
members of the National Youth Service Corps are not part of the
community they were posted was enough to disassociate them from
been partisan. Most of the members of the National Youth Service
Corps took the election as part of th eir national assignment. Through
the foregoing, the Independent National Electoral Commission was able
to avoid the engagement of indigenes as polling officers or presiding
officers, thus making the whole process transparent.
29
Statement of the National Democratic Institutes International Election Observer
Mission to Nigeria’s April 16 Presidential Election, Abuja, April 18, 2011. 7
30
Nigeria General Elections, 23 February 2019. Commonwealth. 6
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Ineke, Ugbede Joseph
184
With the success of the 2011 e lection, the Independent National
Electoral Commission was charged with consolidating the success of
the 2011 election s in the 2015 election s which was the fourth
consecutive nationwide election since 1999. In the conduct of the
election, the Independent N ational Electoral Commission introduced an
anti-rigging approaches like the Permanent Voters Card and Card
Reader devices in the conduct of the election.
31
Aside the introduction
of these devices and approach, the successes recorded via the use of the
devices were tied to the readily available , skilled and computer friendly
graduates in all parts of the country through the National Youth Service
Corps (NYSC) Posting Policy.
Since the year 2011 when members of the National Youth Service
Corps were largely introduced into the electoral process in Nigeria
through voters registration and election duties, they had become a
strong component of all the subsequent elections that were held
between 2011 and 2019. Shortly after the 2019 election for instance,
some of t he Corps members of the National Youth Service Corps were
reported to have distinguished themselves in different locations that
they were deployed to in the course of the election.
32
According to the
Thisday Newspaper , months after the election, the Independent
National Electoral Commission (INEC) rewarded some of the Corps
members that performed excellently during the election. The Chairman
of the Independent National Electoral Commission Prof. Mahmood
Yakubu at the e vent to reward the Corps members averred that there
can be no successful election in Nigeria without the contribution of the
31
Oarhe Osumah. 2016. Paradigm Shift: Youth Engagement in the Conduct of the
2015 Elections in Nigeria. Journal of African Elections , Vol. 15, No. 1. 12
32
Reward for Dedicated Corps Members. Thisday, June 20, 2019. Retrieved from
https://www.thisdaylive.com/index.php/2019/06/20/reward -for-dedicated -Corps-
members/
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and Elections in Nigeria:
185
National Youth Service Corps members.
33
Prof Yakubu declared at the
occasion that in recognition of the Corps members’ laudable
contributions to the conduct of elections in the country, the
commission would offer jobs to those who performed well in the 2019
General elections. At the same occasion, the European Union (EU)
which has partnered with the Independent National Electoral
Commission for long, presented Information Technology (IT)
equipment to about 75 dedicated and patriotic Corps members for
working hard during the 2019 General elections.
34
The Head of EU
Delegation to Nigeria and ECOWAS, Ambassador Ke til Karlsen, said the
gesture was in recognition of the immense contributions made by the
Youth Corps members to the success of the General elections.
35
According to him, over 290, 000 Corps members participated in the
elections, during which the EU observed their dedication and
commitment to the process. The INEC Chairman, further underscored
the role of the NYSC in successful conduct of the election s and declared
that:
“there cannot be any elections in Nigeria without the
NYSC. I have said it before, I want to say it again and I
will not be tired of saying it, that the youth Corps
members are the most dedicated, educated, patriotic,
33
Reward for Dedicated Corps Members. Thisday, June 20, 2019. Retrieved from
https://www.thisdaylive.com/index.php/2019/06/20/reward -for-dedicated -Corps-
members/
34
Reward for Dedicated Corps Members. Thisday, June 20, 2019. Retrieved from
https://www.thisdaylive.com/index.php/2019/06/20/reward -for-dedicated -Corps-
members/
35
Reward for Dedicated Corps Members. Thisday, June 20, 2019. Retrieved from
https://www.thisdaylive.com/index.php/2019/06/20/reward -for-dedicated -Corps-
members/
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Ineke, Ugbede Joseph
186
willing, able, readily available and the most committed
election duty staff in Nigeria”.
36
Suffice it to say that the involvement of the Corps members is not just
about election. It is much more concerned with the electoral process.
This is tied to the fact that Corps members are always available for
voter education, registration, display of voters register and election day
duty. As presiding officers, the y count votes, record, take results to
collation centres throughout the different locations in the country
through the land and sea.
37
The succes ses recorded in the country’s electoral process through the
involvement of Corps members were not without seriou s challenges.
Starting with the 2011 election for instance, most Corps members were
stranded in the various polling unit s due to the absence of a working
arrangement to transport both the Corps members and the electoral
materials to and from the polling un its. The situation as witnessed in
some part s of Ibadan , Oyo State became very challenging after the
election because the Corps members found it difficult to transport the
election materials back to the collation centres and as a result had to
resort to be ing transported to the collation centres by some concerned
members of the communities they were posted to serve. During the
2015 Governorship election in Bayelsa State, most of the Corps
members on election duty were transported to the various polling units
with election materials via water to places like Oproma in Southern
36
Reward for Dedicated Corps Member s. Thisday, June 20, 2019. Retrieved from
https://www.thisdaylive.com/index.php/2019/06/20/reward -for-dedicated -Corps-
members/
37
Reward for Dedicated Corps M embers. Thisday, June 20, 2019. Retrieved from
https://www.thisdaylive.com/index.php/2019/06/20/reward -for-dedicated -Corps-
members/
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and Elections in Nigeria:
187
Ijaw and to Ekeremo and Brass.
38
. Also, in Ondo State for instance,
during the Governorship election in 2017, some of the Corps members
that were bringing back results from Ilaje had a boat accident at night.
It however, took the timely intervention of the Nigerian Navy who were
at the background to come to their rescue.
39
This explains partly the
challenging situation and the sacrifice of Corps members during the
conduct of elections in Nigeria.
Aside the issue of logistic s, security was a major challenge to the Corps
members on election duties. During the 2011 election for ins tance, at
least ten persons lost their lives while others sustained fatal injuries
including Corps members at the Independent National Electoral
Commission’s office in Suleja, Niger State. .
40
On the day of the
Presidential Election two separate explosions were reported in Borno
and Kaduna State while sporadic shootings were reported in Jos. It was
however estimated by the Human Right Group that at least 800 persons
were killed during this period, including eleven members of the
National Youths Service Corps on election duty in Bauchi .
41
This went a
long way to influence the public opinion that the government and the
Independent National Electoral Commission did not make adequate
provisions for the security of members of the National Youth Service
Corps upon wh ich the commission depended for the success of the
2011 election s. Suffice it to say that the increasing waves of insecurity
38
Reward for Dedicated Co rps Members. Thisday, June 20, 2019. Retrieved from
https://www.thisdaylive.com/index.php/2019/06/20/reward -for-dedicated -Corps-
members/
39
Reward for Dedicat ed Corps Members. Thisday, June 20, 2019. Retrieved from
https://www.thisdaylive.com/index.php/2019/06/20/reward -for-dedicated -Corps-
members/
40
2011 Nigerian Elections: National Democratic Institute for International Affairs.
Final Report. 2012. New York: National Democratic Institute. 40
41
2011 Nigerian Elections: National Democratic Institute for International Affairs.
Final Report. 2012. New York: National Democratic Institute. 42
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTION Ineke, Ugbede Joseph
188
in the country coupled with the mass relocation ofCorps members from
parts of the North -East and North -West due to the effects of B oko
Haram, Banditry and religious extremism constitutes a big challenge to
the Independent National Electoral Commission because the
implication of the above implies that the aforementioned location s
would be deficient in the required number of Corps membe rs needed
for national assignments like voters education and election duties.
According to Ocheme Mark, the absence of IT -inclined graduates and
youths in good numbers in most of the rural communities in the core
north means that the Independent National E lectoral Commission will
struggle to assemble the needed number of graduates to conduct
elections in such area.
42
It should be noted that after the active engagement within three weeks
in a row, there were cases of inadequate provisions of accommodation
for the Corps members who were  posted for election duties outside
their host Communities and as a result of this, many of the Corps
members on election duty found it very difficult to buy food.
Prospects
1. Adequate security should be provided for Corps members on
election duties.
2. Adequate accommodationarrangements should be provided for
Corps members.
3. Corps members should be exposed to IT Trainings and INEC
assignments during the 21 days Orientation Course and the
service year in anticipation of their engagements in election
and other related duties.
42
Ocheme Mark is an ex -Corps members who served in Bauchi State and
participated in the 2011 General Election as a Registration Officer I and a Presiding
Officer in the 2011 General Election. He was interviewed on 30 -01-2021
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and Elections in Nigeria:
189
Conclusion
This paper concludes that the National Youth Service Corps since its
first intervention into the country’s electoral process has become an
integral part of the subsequent elections in the country. The paper also
argued that the involvement of Corps members in the conduct of
electionswas made possible by the relative distribution of skilled and
educated graduate members of the Scheme throughout the country as a
result of its deployment and posting policy which has ensured that each
part of the country gets a trained and qualified graduate to serve within
the period of one year. Paper contended that the Scheme was able to
give credence to elections in the country since 2011 due to the fact that
Corps members are not basically allowed to serve in their state of
origin, hence making them non-partisan.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTIONS                                Bem J. Audu and M. Hamza  
190 
 
 11 1122 22    
    Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim:  
An Overview of His Achievements as 18th 
NYSC Director-General 
 
 
Bem Japhet Audu 
and 
Maryam Hamza 
 
 
Introduction 
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) has attained tremendous 
height since the assumption of office by Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim as 
the Director General (DG) of the Scheme. This is not surprising, given 
the fact that Gen Ibrahim is a thoroughbred military administrator, who 
combines scholarship, emotional intelligence and finesse in his 
administrative duties. His experiences cut across administration in the 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
191 
 
military and civil establishments, which combination have accelerated 
the pace of the modest service rendered to the NYSC.  
Key issues that confronted the Scheme upon his assumption of office 
include the need to sustain the relevance of the NYSC in a fast-changing 
world; second, inadequate motivation and welfare for Corps Members 
and staff of the Scheme. The third was the challenge of unemployment 
among the youths after the mandatory one year national service. 
Gen Ibrahim’s track record as a visionary leader readily came to play in 
tackling these challenges. He initiated a five-point policy thrust to 
address them. These five-point policy thrust include the following:  
 
/xrhombus Sustain effective utilisation of the potentials of Corps Members 
for optimal benefit;  
/xrhombus Strengthen existing collaborations with critical stakeholders; 
/xrhombus Improve on the welfare and security of Corps Members and 
staff; 
/xrhombus Pursue a technologically driven organisation to deepen 
effective service delivery;  
/xrhombus Reinvigorate the NYSC Ventures and SAED in line with the NYSC 
Act for greater impact. 
 
It is against this backdrop that this essay examines the achievements of 
Gen Ibrahim as Director General of the NYSC, using a descriptive 
approach and evidence -- based study. The paper argues that Gen 
Ibrahim has not only transformed the NYSC, but has also repositioned it 
to benefit the Corps Members, members of staff and indeed, the nation 
at large.  
The assumption here is that leadership is a process of galvanising 
resources to attain group goals. Gen Ibrahim’s leadership style has led 
to the transformation of the NYSC by strengthening the institution, in 
terms of welfare, security, innovations and technological advancement. 
Despite these laudable achievements, there have equally been 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTIONS                                Bem J. Audu and M. Hamza  
192 
 
challenges. The Corona Virus (COVID-19) pandemic threatened to 
derail the activities of the Scheme. As an astute administrator, he rose 
to the occasion through a robust coordinated response to manage the 
pandemic that has become a reference point and template for other 
establishments in the country. 
Towards a Biography of General Ibrahim: Trends in his Academic, 
Military and Administrative Career 
Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim (Associate Professor), was born on the 13th 
July, 1967 and hails from Nasarawa Local Government Area of 
Nasarawa State. He attended the famous University of Jos where he 
obtained Bachelor's and Master's Degrees in History (1989 and 1992 
respectively), before proceeding to bag a Post-Graduate Diploma in 
Education from Tai Solar in University of Education, Ijebu Ode, Ogun 
State. Driven by his tenacity to acquire knowledge, he went on to obtain 
a Ph.D in History from the University of Abuja in 2007. 
Since his commissioning into the Nigerian Army, he has served in 
various capacities in military formations across the country. His 
appointments and postings include: The Institute of Army Education 
(Research Officer). Researched and produced Nigerian Army Journals 
and Briefs for the Nigerian Army in particular, and the Military in 
general; NYSC (Military Assistant to the Director General) 1997-1999; 
Nigerian Defence Academy (Taught 100 and 200 Levels 2000-2004; 
National Defence College (Staff Officer I Military History 2004-2009; 
Headquarters Nigerian Army School of Education (Senior Instructor) 
2009-2011; Commandant Command Secondary School, Suleja 2012-
2014; Nigerian Defence Academy (Head of Department, History and 
War Studies), 2015-2018; and Registrar, Nigerian Army University, Biu, 
Borno State(2018-2019). 
Brigadier General S Ibrahim is a scholar of high repute, who authored, 
co-authored, edited, co-edited and contributed articles/chapters to 
numerous books and academic Journals.  
Despite his tight schedule, Brig Gen S Ibrahim still devotes time to 
academic work, including the supervision of students' thesis and 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
193 
 
dissertations, serving as Internal and External Examiner of Master’s 
Students at the Ahmadu Bello University Zaria and the Nigerian 
Defence Academy, Kaduna.  
Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim was appointed 18th Director General of the 
National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), and assumed the leadership of 
the Corps on 10th May, 2019.This ushered in a transformation era for 
the Scheme which has not only been a source of immense benefit to the 
Service Corps, but the entire country in general.  
The General also had a cluster of completed courses in the military, and 
excelled in these courses.  Brig Gen Ibrahim is an Associate Professor in 
the Department of History and War Studies, Nigeria Defence Academy, 
Kaduna. These feats in both military and academic trainings, as well as 
experience in service are what marked him out as a visionary, seasoned 
and ingenious administrator.  
Since assumption of duty as the Director General of the NYSC, the 
media has been awash with bourgeoning records of his strides. His 
vision for the Scheme informed his decision to roll out a five-point 
policy thrust, geared towards utilising the potentials of the Corps 
Members maximally.  Since assumption of duty at the NYSC, his 
pragmatic leadership skill has set the Scheme on the path of 
rejuvenation and continuous relevance. Like his predecessors, he came 
up with robust and ambitious programmes, aimed at repositioning the 
Scheme as a self-sufficient and revenue -- generating government 
organisation. 
This chapter will attempt an appraisal of the delivery of these specific 
goals by the administration of Gen S Ibrahim within a short period of 
two years, in spite of the huge challenges facing the Scheme. 
Sustain effective utilisation of the potentials of Corps Members for 
optimal benefit. 
The successful conduct of the 2019 NYSC Sports and Cultural Festivals 
is a remarkable achievement of the Director General in harnessing the 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTIONS                                Bem J. Audu and M. Hamza  
194 
 
huge potentials of the Corps Members for national development. The 
NYSC Sports and Cultural Festivals serve as one of the veritable 
avenues through which the Scheme promotes national unity, cultural 
integration, as well as showcasing the abundant talents of Corps 
Members in the areas of sports and culture for gainful employment in 
the sports and film industries. The Festivals were revived by the 
present management. The grand finale was held in Abuja. Not only that, 
measures were put in place to ensure that the event holds annually. 
Another success of the NYSC Director General is the production of an 
NYSC movie titled "A Call to Service" currently undergoing post 
production work. Apart from its entertainment value, the movie is 
being packaged to create public awareness on the roles of stakeholders 
to the Scheme. These stakeholders include the three tiers of 
government, Corps employers, as well as serving and prospective Corps 
Members. Ultimately, the film will promote better understanding of the 
Scheme to the public, in addition to sensitising them on their expected 
roles to the Scheme. 
Another noteworthy achievement of the Director General is the 
establishment of NYSC National Cultural Troupe. This initiative is to 
provide a veritable platform for Corps Members to develop their 
talents in drama and cultural dance, while also eliciting public support 
towards harnessing such talents through private and corporate 
patronage. Remarkably, the NYSC Cultural Troupe will also shore up 
the revenue base of the Scheme through its activities which will be 
commercialised.  
In the same vein, the NYSC Director General has successfully organised 
a National Anti-Corruption Walk. This is in furtherance of the NYSC's 
contributions to the fight against corruption through the activities of 
the Corps Anti-Corruption and Integrity CDS Group. The programme 
involved the participation of thousands of Corps Members in the first 
ever nationwide rally/road walk organised by the Economic and 
Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), in conjunction with the Federal 
Ministry of Youth and Sports Development on 14th February, 2020. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
195 
 
The Director-General personally joined the Corps Members and 
officials in Kano State for the rally, which was tagged “Nigerian Youths 
March Against Corruption.”  
This action further boosted the commitment of the NYSC in eradicating 
corruption and promotion of good moral and ethical values in the 
country. 
The outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic nearly crippled the global 
socio-economic activities and did not spare the Scheme. The 2020 
Batch “A” Orientation Course was suspended barely eight days into the 
programme. However, the ever resourceful and proactive Director 
General challenged the creative ingenuity of Corps Members who 
responded appropriately to the challenge by producing non-
pharmaceutical intervention materials such as face-mask, liquid soap, 
alcohol - based hand sanitiser and donated same to the indigent 
populace across the length and breadth of the country. 
Under the leadership of Gen Ibrahim, the NYSC has also carried out 
public awareness campaigns on containment measures for the dreaded 
virus. The initiative of the Director General was later adopted by some  
public institutions. 
Another innovative contribution of the NYSC in the fight against COVID-
19 pandemic is the fabrication of foot-operated water, liquid soap and 
hand sanitizer dispenser by individual Corps Members in several 
States.  
For instance,  Babatunde Dolapo Dayo and Sebe Godspower - Abia 
State; Abdullahi Sani - Kano; Abdulsalam Abubakar and Obiefuna 
Ebuka - Kwara; Adeyanju Adeyemi, Afolabi Victor, Ogunmoye Victor - 
Oyo and Onyekwere Chiwotaoke – Zamfara and Ilori Deborah - FCT 
were among the Corps Members that fabricated and donated the 
devices. 
In addition, Corps Members, acting on the platform of Charity 
CDS/SDGs Group, have been contributing towards mitigating the effects 
of the COVID-19 at the grassroots, through the donation of food and 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTIONS                                Bem J. Audu and M. Hamza  
196 
 
other relief items to State and Local Governments, as well as indigent 
members of the society. These strategies by the Director General paved 
the way for the Scheme to obtain approval from the National Centre for 
Disease Control (NCDC) to resume full operations, especially the 
Orientation Course. 
Relatedly, several Corps Members on teaching assignment also 
contributed towards sustaining the educational progress of their 
students by adopting virtual teaching approach while schools remained 
closed as a result of the pandemic.  
As per the pursuit of a technologically-driven organisation to deepen 
effective service delivery, the Director-General recently conducted the 
first ever video conference with the 2021 Batch ‘A’ Stream 1 Corps 
Members in all the 37 Orientation Camps. It was an avenue to interface 
with thousands of Corps Members simultaneously, in line with COVID-
19 safety protocols. He has sustained this initiative by periodically 
holding virtual meetings with serving Corps Members, as well as NYSC 
State Coordinators across the country. 
It is gratifying to disclose that the Director General's interface with 
National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) has 
ensured the equipping of the NYSC Rivers Secretariat with computers 
by the agency. That singular gesture has in no small measure deepened 
the proficiency of Corps Members and staff members in the area of 
Information technology. 
The Chief Executive introduced the inscription of date of birth on the 
Certificate of National Service and Exclusion Letter, beginning with the 
2019 Batch “A” Corps Members and 2019 Batch “C” respectively. This is 
in a bid to check the manipulation of date of birth by ineligible persons 
seeking mobilisation for National Service, and it has had a positive 
effect in checkmating the falsification of records for employment, visa, 
political appointments, among others. 
Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim conceptualised and designed a state-of-the-
art ICT Office for the Scheme. The design had already been forwarded 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
197 
 
to the Federal Capital Development Authority (FCDA) and Federal 
Ministry of Works and Housing for approval. The cost of construction 
was appropriated in the 2021 Budget, and the Scheme is awaiting the 
release of funds for its commencement.  
Other laudable efforts by Gen Ibrahim to deepen effective service 
delivery include, the development of a Five-Year Strategic Development 
Plan for the Scheme, review of the NYSC Composite  Policy Document 
and documentation of the activities of the Scheme, all aimed at 
positioning the Scheme as a research hub for academics and the 
general public. 
Under his watch, the Federal Government drafted the NYSC into the 
Presidential Steering Committee on Alternate School Programme. The 
inclusion of the Corps in the Committee is in recognition of the 
invaluable contributions of the Scheme to national development, 
particularly in the sphere of Education. 
NYSC is a repository of talents, parading the most enlightened class of 
Nigerian youths, who in forty - eight years of the Scheme's existence 
have continued to make varying degrees of multi-sectoral contributions 
to the growth and well-being of the nation.  
Therefore, the inclusion of the Scheme, whose visibility has been top-
notch in the last two years as member of the Mambila Hydro Power 
Project speaks on the high premium the Federal Government places on 
the Corps. 
Undoubtedly, membership of these august bodies have clearly 
underscored the high pedestal the Director General has taken the 
Scheme in his two years of his eventful and remarkable administration.  
In respect of improving the welfare and security of Corps Members and 
staff, in a rare demonstration of empathy and commitment to the 
welfare of Corps Members, the Director General personally visited and 
encouraged Corps Member Saidu Mohammed Adamu, who was 
admitted at the Federal Teaching Hospital, Ado-Ekiti, as a result of 
gunshot injuries that he sustained while on election duties during the 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTIONS                                Bem J. Audu and M. Hamza  
198 
 
recent bye-election held in Ekiti East Local Government Area of Ekiti 
State in March 2021.  
Similar visits were also paid to several members of the Service Corps 
on admission in hospitals in Sokoto, Katsina, Edo, Plateau, Taraba and 
Kwara States, among others, following their involvement in road traffic 
accidents. 
The Director General has also paid condolence and reassuring visits to 
the families of deceased and missing Corps Members in Plateau, 
Kaduna and Edo States. Such gestures have increased the confidence of 
Corps Members and their families in the Scheme, and have also 
engendered more zeal for patriotic service by the members of the 
Corps. 
The Director General further demonstrated his commitment to Corps 
welfare by procuring prosthetic limbs for a Corps Member in 
furtherance of his welfare policy. The sum of Thirty-two Million Naira 
(N32,000,000.00) was expended to procure the limbs for Corps 
Member, Nuraddeen Tahir from Kano State, who, along with other 
Corps Members, was involved in a road traffic accident, while on his 
way to report for Primary Assignment after the 2019 Batch ‘B’ Stream 1 
Orientation Course in Taraba State. The Corps Member, who had earlier 
lost an arm at a younger age, had the other one amputated as a result of 
the accident. The artificial limbs have already been supplied, while 
Nuraddeen was trained on the effective use of the limbs before he was 
re-united with his family. With this development, he can now 
effectively perform normal tasks such as writing with the limbs. 
The Director General relentlessly pursued the issue of increment of 
Corps Members’ allowance in the wake of approval of the new National 
Minimum Wage. His effort paid-off and the allowance of Corps 
Members was increased from Nineteen thousand, Eight hundred Naira 
(N19,800.00) to Thirty-three Thousand Naira (N33,000.00). Following 
the commencement of the payment of the new rate with effect from 
January 2020, the Director General along with the Honourable Minister 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
199 
 
of Youth and Sports Development and some representatives of Corps 
Members paid a “Thank-you” visit to His Excellency, the President and 
Commander-in-Chief, Armed Forces, Federal Republic of Nigeria, 
Muhammadu Buhari GCFR on 6th February, 2020 at the Presidential 
Villa, Abuja. 
 
Following improvement in the security situation in the country, the 
Director General sought for, and got approval from the Federal 
Government for a return to the earlier suspended ceremonial passing-
out of Corps Members. Accordingly, the Passing-Out Ceremony of the 
2019 Batch ‘A’ Corps Members was marked with colourful parades 
nationwide, thereby increasing the visibility of the NYSC.   
The successful conduct of Orientation courses is also another 
achievement of the Director General as he oversaw the successful 
conduct of the 2019 Batch ‘B’ Streams I and II, as well as 2019 Batch ‘C’ 
Streams I and II Orientation Courses. 
As a proactive measure, NYSC Management suspended the 2020 Batch 
‘A’ Stream 1 Orientation Course just a week into the exercise as a 
deliberate effort to avert the spread of COVID-19 in the Orientation 
Camps. The commendable action equally brought to the fore his 
concern for the health and general well-being of Corps Members and 
staff. 
In recognition of his efforts at curtailing the spread of COVID-19, 
Victims Support Funds (VSF), an organisation chaired by Lt Gen TY 
Danjuma donated 60,000 RDT test kits to the Scheme. The kits are used 
for the screening of prospective Corps Members and camp officials for 
COVID-19 in NYSC Orientation camps nationwide.  
In his quest to expand the administrative structure of the Scheme, the 
Director General ensured the smooth take - off of the NYSC Area Offices, 
whose approval had earlier been secured by the immediate past 
administration of Gen Kazaure, one in each of the six geo-political zones 
of the country, headed by a Director on salary grade level 17. This feat 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTIONS                                Bem J. Audu and M. Hamza  
200 
 
has opened up more vacancies, allowing for posting of other cadre of 
staff alongside the Directors to man the Offices. The Area Offices are 
located in Kaduna (North West), Niger (North Central), Bauchi (North 
East), Enugu (South East), Osun (South West) and Delta (South South) 
have since taken off and have in no mean way boosted staff morale and 
operations of the Scheme. 
 
In line with one of the cardinal points of his policy thrust, the Director 
General has been pursuing policies that are geared not only towards 
motivating staff, but also promoting industrial harmony in the Scheme. 
This has been aptly demonstrated through prompt payment of 
entitlements, capacity building programmes, as well as timely and 
transparent conduct of promotion examinations. During the 2020 
Promotion Exercise for instance, One Thousand Seven Hundred and 
Eighteen (1,718) out of the Two Thousand One Hundred Fifty-One 
(2,151) officers that participated in the event were elevated to the next 
grade level after meeting the requirements stipulated in the Public 
Service Rules and NYSC Conditions of Service. Additionally, the 2021 
Senior Staff Promotion Examination recorded a huge success. The 
impact of these promotion exercises has reinforced the commitment of 
staff to work for an enhanced performance. 
Meanwhile, as Management strives to enhance the motivation of staff, 
much premium is laid on the need to have a highly disciplined 
workforce. In this regard, officers who commit infractions are 
reprimanded in line with the provisions of the Public Service Rules 
(PSR). 
On strengthening the existing collaboration with critical stakeholders, 
on assumption of office, the Director General saw the dire need to 
sustain and strengthen the existing collaboration with critical 
stakeholders to garner more support and involve them in the 
management of the Scheme. He therefore embarked on advocacy visits 
to the stakeholders such as the former Head of State, General Yakubu 
Gowon, whose administration founded the Scheme. The Director-
General has had interface with the 36 State Governors, the Governor of 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
201 
 
the Central Bank of Nigeria, heads of Security and Anti-Corruption 
Agencies, Federal Road Safety Corps, among other stakeholders. The 
impact of this initiative is the improvement already being achieved in 
stakeholders’ support to the Scheme which is of great essence. 
The Director General also addressed a meeting of the Nigeria 
Governors’ Forum – the first of such engagement by any Chief 
Executive of the Scheme. He used the occasion of the meeting to 
appreciate the State Governors for their support to the Scheme, 
through various intervention projects in their respective States. He 
drew their attention to other areas that needed to be addressed, being 
part of the obligations of the State Governments to the Corps, as spelt 
out in the NYSC Act. 
Consequently the hosting of the meeting of NYSC top Management with 
the representatives of State Governments and the Federal Capital 
Territory Administration, a fallout of the meeting with the Governor's 
Forum is aimed at strengthening the collaboration with the Scheme, 
with a particular focus on the discharge of the statutory obligations of 
the States and FCT to the NYSC, as spelt out in its enabling Act. 
The impact of the meeting is profound, as several State Governments 
have made remarkable gestures in support of the Scheme. Prominent 
among them is the donation of two NYSC permanent Orientation camps 
by Edo and Anambra States, plans by the Lagos State Government to 
build a 14,000 -- capacity Orientation camp and the ongoing upgrading 
and rehabilitation of camp facilities in twenty five States, while the 
expansion of camp facilities has commenced in nine States to meet the 
5,000 -- Corps Member and 500 -- course official -- capacity camp. 
Other notable gains derived from the meeting include, constitution of 
functional NYSC State Governing Boards in seventeen States, with 
eighteen States enhancing the regular payment of state allowance to 
Corps Members, provision and upgrading of transit camps for Corps 
Members in thirty -- one states, provision of watertight security for 
Corps Members in all the States and the FCT, issuance of circulars by 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTIONS                                Bem J. Audu and M. Hamza  
202 
 
State Governments against the rejection of Corps Members, increased 
partnership with the Association of Local Governments of Nigeria 
(ALGON), provision of decent accommodation or payment of allowance 
in lieu of that to Corps Members and provision of office and residential 
accommodation by the States hosting the Headquarters of the Area 
Offices. 
In Promoting NYSC/Media relations, the Director General has since 
assumption of duty, strived to strengthen the cordial relations the 
Scheme enjoys with the Media. This, he kick-started with his maiden 
chat with Editors, Bureau Chiefs and Youth Correspondents of various 
Media Organisations in the country on 15th August, 2019. Brig Gen S 
Ibrahim also paid courtesy visits to Media offices in Abuja, including 
the Headquarters of the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA), News 
Agency of Nigeria (NAN), Media Trust Limited and Leadership Group 
Limited.  Similar visits with Director-General’s directive were also 
made to Lagos Head Offices of The Punch, Daily Sun, The Nation 
newspapers, among others. He has consistently maintained his Media-
friendly posture, thereby attracting wider publicity for the Scheme’s 
activities.  
To deepen and sustain the wide publicity that the Scheme has enjoyed, 
he has resuscitated the production and airing of the NYSC Half Hour 
programme on NTA International Channel 251 and Armed Forces 
Radio FM.  So far, plans have reached an advanced stage to establish the 
first ever NYSC FM Radio that will be useful to adequately drive the 
publicity efforts of the Scheme and showcase its activities to Nigerians 
and the entire world. 
The Director-General in furtherance of his transparent, inspirational 
and all-inclusive style of administration paid visits to some former 
Chief Executives of the Scheme. The gesture was aimed at appreciating 
their respective contributions to the development of Scheme when they 
were in the saddle of leadership, and also tap into their vast wealth of 
experience. The former Chief Executives appreciated the initiative as it 
was the first ever visit paid simultaneously to them. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
203 
 
The maiden meeting with the Registrars of some Foreign Corps 
Producing Institutions was also held, having, uncovered the fraudulent 
activities of some tertiary institutions in Africa, especially in the West 
Africa sub region which have the penchant to issue questionable 
academic certificates to unqualified persons, who in turn present same 
to get mobilised for national service. The Director-General has 
commenced an aggressive fight against this menace which has earned 
him the commendation of the President, His Excellency Muhammadu 
Buhari GCFR, during his address at the 2018/2019 President's NYSC 
Honours Award Ceremony. Similar commendations were given to him 
by a broad spectrum of vice chancellors of some indigenous and foreign 
institutions, including the Honourable Minister of Education. 
In addition to hosting the meeting with the Registrars, internal 
mechanisms have been put in place for easier detection of unqualified 
persons attempting to present themselves for mobilisation for service.  
As a result of the stance of Management, some of the foreign 
institutions are now volunteering to alert NYSC of suspected fraudulent 
practices by their students. Interestingly, out of over twenty thousand 
(20,000) persons who registered online as foreign-trained prospective 
Corps Members of the 2019 Batch ‘C’ Service Year, only three thousand, 
four hundred and twenty (3,420) turned up for the pre-mobilisation 
physical screening of their credentials.  
To serve as a deterrent to others, sixty-five (65) unqualified persons 
arrested during the 2019 Batch ‘B’ Stream II Orientation Course in 
camps across the country are being prosecuted with some convictions 
already secured. These steps taken by Management have helped to 
create national awareness, especially on the need for parents and 
guardians to check the accreditation status of the institutions attended 
by their wards, and also monitor their academic progress. 
The bold move by the Director General in sanitising the mobilisation 
process will also ensure that only well trained and competent persons 
occupy critical positions that will fast-track the development of the 
country.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTIONS                                Bem J. Audu and M. Hamza  
204 
 
The Director-General has equally hosted a national sensitisation 
programme on the NYSC Act on 24th July, 2019 in Abuja. Prior to this, it 
was clear that many Nigerians were not aware of the provisions of the 
Act – a situation that has led to avoidable infractions. With the 
sensitisation, which is still on-going, organisations and individuals are 
now having better understanding of their obligations to the Scheme. In 
particular, cases of evasion and abscondment from Service, especially 
by the foreign-trained Nigerian graduates, are expected to reduce 
drastically.  
Broadly looking at the reinvigoration of the NYSC ventures and skill 
acquisition and entrepreneurship development programme in line with 
NYSC Act for greater impact, the Director General has been speaking 
passionately about his desire to make the Skill Acquisition and 
Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) Programme and NYSC 
Ventures Management Departments more functional. 
 
To match words with actions, he has taken several steps towards 
reinvigorating the SAED programme, including, but not limited to the 
following: 
• Renewal of commitment by the NYSC and Bank of Industry 
towards the resuscitation of empowerment of Corps 
entrepreneurs with business loans under the BOI-NYSC 
Graduate Empowerment Fund. 
• Intensive monitoring of GEF beneficiaries. 
• New collaboration with NIRSAL Microfinance Bank on 
empowerment of Corps entrepreneurs. 
• New partnership with Unity Bank Plc on a programme named 
‘Allawee’ aimed at empowering Corps members.  
• Collaboration with British-American Tobacco Foundation on 
empowerment of Corps Members with agricultural skills and 
business trainings, farm internship, mentoring and farm input 
supplies. 
• Hosting of the 2020 NYSC SAED Stakeholders meeting aimed at 
reviewing the programme implementation strategies, as well as 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
205 
 
strengthening of existing partnerships and exploring new ones 
for further technical and material support. 
• Pursuing the completion of the North West Skill Acquisition 
Centre in Kazaure, Jigawa State, this is now at advanced stage. 
• Commencement of work on the North Central Skill Acquisition 
Centre in Keffi, Nasarawa State. 
• Research-based collaboration with OAU-NACETEM sponsored 
by a Canadian Agency, International Development Research 
Centre on evaluation of the impact of SAED and reinvigorating 
it for greater impact. 
• Resuscitation of NYSC Water Factory and Bakery at NYSC 
Orientation Camp Kubwa. The NYSC Water Factory and Bakery 
were revived and revitalised by the Director-General 
immediately he assumed office, and these two ventures are now 
producing at full capacity. The water and bread produced in 
these ventures are being supplied to the FCT, Nasarawa, Kogi, 
Kaduna and Niger State Orientation camps and the general 
public. These ventures now generate revenue to the Scheme 
and help Corps Members acquire skills too. 
• Purchase of modern farm equipment for the four NYSC 
functional farms namely, NYSC Farm Kwali in FCT, Saminaka, 
Kebbi State, Dungulbi, Bauchi State and Iseyin Oyo State. Each 
of these farms now has tractors and other basic farm 
equipment. 
• The consistent support in terms of funding and staffing has 
increased the hectares under cultivation from 60 hectares to 
160 hectares during the 2020 farming season. 
• Reclaiming of NYSC farmland at Ezillo which hitherto was 
collected by the Ebonyi State Government. Immediately after 
the reclaiming, tractor was purchased for farming operations at 
the Ezillo Farm. 
• The structure of Ventures Management Department was 
expanded which gave room for the promotion of staff, and has 
in no mean way motivated the staff members. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTIONS                                Bem J. Audu and M. Hamza  
206 
 
• Registration of the two NYSC Garment Factories, Water Factory 
and Bakery with the Corporate Affairs Commission. Arising 
from the last Meeting of the NYSC Top Management with 
Representatives of State Governments, the Governors of Edo 
and Ekiti States announced the donation of land for the sitting 
of two garment factories which will boost the production of 
Corps Members’ kit items. 
• Developing partnership with relevant institutions such as 
International Institute for Tropical Agriculture (IITA), National 
Agricultural Land Development Agency (NALDA), NCRI, NCAM, 
ARMTI, NCAC etc. to enhance the productivity of NYSC 
Farms/Ventures among others. 
• Resuscitation of moribund NYSC Feedmill, Lagos. The mill is 
now ready to start production of animal feeds. 
• Construction of new poultry pen at NYSC farm Kwali, FCT. 
• The Director General has met with the State Governors and 
other stakeholders with a view to securing land in all the States 
for agricultural production. 
 
In addition to the above, twelve States have opened up their skills 
centres for the post camp training of Corps Members to further 
strengthen the skills and entrepreneurship training acquired in camp. 
• The tremendous support given by the Director General has 
repositioned all the NYSC Ventures for greater revenue 
generation for the Scheme.  
 
Interestingly, the Scheme paid into the national coffers over Two 
Hundred and Eighty Million Naira (N280,000,000.00) as internally 
generated revenue which is unprecedented in the annals of the Scheme. 
The Director General who has introduced the use of name tags by every 
member of staff for easy identification, equally in an unprecedented 
move sought the help of the Federal Government in tackling the 
ecological challenges confronting some of the NYSC Orientation camps. 
Government granted the request through the deployment of Ecological 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
207 
 
Fund to tackle the menace. Eight camps have been approved as 
beneficiaries in the first phase of the intervention. Already, work is 
ongoing in Cross River, Taraba, FCT and Nasarawa Orientation camps.  
 
In recognition of his service to the nation, Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim 
who has institutionalised Farewell Parade for outgoing NYSC Chief 
Executives - a novelty, has received numerous commendations and 
awards which include:  
• Chief of Army Staff Award as the Overall Best Participant for 
2013 NAEC Executive Management Course. 
• Nigerian Institute of Public Relations (NIPR) Special 
Recognition Award 2014. 
• Award for Distinguished Professional Contributions to Public 
Service/Fellowship (FCAI) by Institute of Corporate 
Administration. 
• Professional National Award (Historical Society of Nigeria HSN) 
and 
• Chief of Army Staff Commendation Letter 2018.  
 
Conclusion 
The above discourse has given an insight on the achievements of 
General Shuaibu Ibrahim since becoming the Director General of the 
National Youth Service Corps. Within the last two years, the Scheme has 
made some giant strides owing to the pursuit of strict implementation 
of the Director General’s five-point policy thrust. Therefore, the 
contributions of Brig Gen Ibrahim to the NYSC since his ascension into 
office cannot be overemphasised. These contributions are indeed 
remarkable, and will undoubtedly stand the test of time, having set the 
Scheme on growth trajectory and continuous relevance.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND ELECTIONS                                Bem J. Audu and M. Hamza  
208 
 
Bibliography 
 
A. J. Afolayan et al. Selected Speeches and Strides of the 18th NYSC 
Director General: Brigadier General S. Ibrahim, Abuja: NYSC 
National Directorate Headquarters, 2020. 
Achebe C. The Trouble with Nigeria, Enugu: Fourth Dimension 
Publishers, 1998. 
Appadorai A, The Substance of Politics, London: Oxford University 
Press, 2004. 
Audu B.J. “Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim and the Reinvigoration of NYSC,” 
in C.C.C. Osakwe et al (eds.) War, Society and Leadership in 
Nigeria: Essays in Honour of Brigadier General Shuaibu 
Ibrahim, Kaduna: Nigerian Defence Academy Press. 
Economic Confidential, NYSC: Rebranding for Revenue Generation, 
Youth Empowerment-Brig. Shuaib, D.G”, Vol. 13 (154), July, 
2020. 
Gen. Ibrahim attended NAEC (Nigerian Army Education Corps), Young 
Officers Course 1994; Infantry (INF) Young Officers Course 
1996; Training Development Advisers Course (TDA) 2004; and 
NAEC Officers’ Executive Management Course, 2013. Cited in 
The Nation, “NYSC: As a Patriot Assumes Duty”, February 19, 
2019.  
Klingborg D.J. “Leadership and Professional Development,” in Journal of 
Veterinary Medical Education, Davis: University of California, 
2006. 
Media Evaluation of Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim, 2020. 
NYSC National Directorate Headquarters, Selected Speeches and 
Strides of the 18th NYSC Director General, Compiled May 2020, 
by the Special Duties Department. 
NYSC News in A Journal of NYSC Directorate Headquarters, Abuja: 
NYSC Publication. 
NYSC. Media Assessment  
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
209 
 
Sharma, M.K. and S. Jain. “Leadership Management: Principles, Models 
and Theories,” in Global Journal of Management and Business 
Studies. ISSBN 2248-9878 Volume 3, Number 3, 2013. 
 
Oral Interview 
 
Interviews with NYSC Coordinator   
Jibril Umar, Head of Ventures Kubwa, 50+, Interviewed at Kubwa 
Abuja, 15/3/21 
Emeka -- Rems Mgbemena, Deputy Director and Head, Publications 
Division, Press and Public Relations Unit, NYSC National 
Directorate Headquarters, Abuja, 50+, Interviewed at Abuja, 
15/3/21  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Abacha, S. 8, 
abduction, 153, 
Abdullahi, R. I., iv, 115, 
Abiola, M. K. O., 8, 
Abubakar, A. A., 8, 
ACDEG, 51, 
Achebe, C., 169, 208, 
Adenanwi, W., 12, 13, 19, 
Adigun, A., 92, 
Adisa, P ., 135, 151, 
Afolayan, A. J., 208, 
African Union, 84, 
Agara, T ., 151, 
Ahmadu Bello University, 193, 
Ajaegbu, O., 158, 
Ajayi, A. T ., 2, 19,
Ajujo, B., 158, 
Ake, C., 135, 151, 157, 169,
Akinbi, J. O., 49, 57, 
Akpan, A., 112, 
Akpotor, S., 132, 137, 151, 
Akubor, E. O., iii, 94, 95, 97, 
112, 
Akwen, G. T ., iii, 1, 15, 19,
Alabi, E., x, 
Aladelokun, D., 163, 
Alao, O., 91, 
 Ali, H. K., iii, 22, 
Alozie, C. C., 24, 34, 
amalgamation, 62, 
Amarachukwu, R. N., 158, 
Amechi, O. R. 40, 47, 
Amorawo, D., 158, 
Anambra State, 201, 
Anheier, H. K., 92, 
Anugwon, E. E., 9, 19, 
Archibong, B. L., x, 
armed banditry, 87, 139, 
Arubayi, D. O., 28, 36, 91, 93, 
assassination, 138, 
Atime, B. M., iii, 37, 47, 
Audu, B. J., ii, iii, x, 190, 208, 
authoritarianism, 95, 
Ayobami, E., 75, 
Babangida, I. B., 96, 190, 
banditry, 147, 
Bauchi, 136, 
Bayelsa state, 142, 
210
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Bayelsa State, 186, 
Boko Haram, 64, 88, 148, 
Brass, 187, 
budgetary allocation, 73, 
Buhari, M., 61, 61, 145, 146, 
203, 
bunkering 153, 
Cameroon, 148, 
capacity-building, 200, 
Chad, 148, 
China, 1, 
civil war, 22, 76, 99, 119, 154, 
172, 
CLEEN, Foundation, 83, 
cold war, 1, 
Collier, P ., 169, 
constitutionalism, 94, 
COVID-19, 192, 195, 
credibility, 53, 
Cross River, 207, 
CSLCMO, x, 
cultism, 153, 
cultural interest, 79, 
Curas, E., 161, 
Dahl, R. A., 3, 19, 
Dalton, R. J., 40, 47, 
Danga, J. Y., x, 
Danladi, A., iii, 76, 92, 93, 
decision-making, 161, 
democracy, 2, 3, 9, 10, 11, 15, 
16, 23, 37, 49, 50, 51, 81, 115, 
162, 176, 180, 
democratization, 62, 90, 
deployment, 86, 102, 122,
Dudley, B., 134, 151,
economic, development, 154, 
ECOWAS, 84, 
EFCC, 28, 194, 
Egwu, S., 151, 
election management, 60, 66, 
83, 
election monitoring, 79, 80, 81, 
83, 
electoral commission, 51, 
electoral violence, 70, 95, 125, 
135, 140, 141, 144, 
electorates, 38, 
Elegbeleye, O. S., 162, 
Emenako, E., 174, 
Enegwea, G., 91, 119, 
Enojo, E. K., iii, 132, 140, 
European, Union, 84, 107, 
Faluyi, K., 116, 126, 130, 
FEDECO, 61, 96, 135, 
Gandin, J., 7, 19, 
Gandiye, A., 149, 
Garba, D., 100, 
Gbosi, O., 167, 
general election, 45, 123, 124, 
Girigin, B., 169, 
Gowon, Y., xi, 8, 200, 
Gumbi, K. S., 130, 
Guobadia, A., 127, 130, 
Hagler , I., 157, 169, 
Hamza, M., ii, iii, x, 190, 
Harons, S. B., 117, 130, 
Hassan, R., 156, 
Heaskovils, J., 7, 19, 
Heyman, S. J., 19, 
hostage taking, 153, 
Ibeanu, O., 38, 42, 47, 
Ibrahim, B. I., iii, 49, 
Ibrahim, G., 100, 
Ibrahim, S., ii, x, 190, 192, 193, 
207, 208, 
Igbo, H., 162, 
Ihugba, A., 167, 
IITA, 206, 
Ikelegbe, O. A., 91, 
Ikpa, I., 162, 
211
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

impartiality, 53, 
INEC, vii, viii, ix, 38, 53, 54, 
55, 67, 80, 86, 96, 109, 
1 1 7 ,  1 1 8 ,  1 2 7 ,  1 2 9 ,  
1 8 0 ,  1 8 3 ,  1 8 4 ,  1 8 7 ,  
188, 196, 
Ineke, U. J., iii, 172, 
insecurity, 56, 
integrity, 53, 
Israel, O., 34, 
ISWAP , 148, 
ITF, 159, 
JDPC, 85, 
Jega, A. M., 85, 130, 145, 
Jonathan, G. E., 62, 145, 146, 
Kazaure, 205, 
Keping, Y, 5, 20, 
kidnapping, 147, 162, 
Koku, U. U., 26, 
Korea, 1, 
Kwaja, M. A., 116, 130, 
leadership, 158, 176, 193, 
liberalization, 14, 
Mark, O., 188, 
Masari, A. B., 87, 
McCormick, 136, 137, 
mobilization, 164, 203, 
Musa, S., 118, 130, 
Mustapha, R. A., 14, 20, 
NALDA, 206, 
national development, 194, 
national integration, 164, 
national sensitization, 204,
naturalization, 24, 
NCDC, 196, 
NDE, 159, 
NEC, 118, 
NECON, 61, 119, 
Nigerian Defence Academy, iv, 
193, 
NIRSAL, 204, 
NITDA, 196, 
Nnedinso, H., 39, 47, 
Nnoli, O., 135, 152, 
Nta, A. J., iii, 
Nwankwo, B. C., 57, 
Nzongola-Ntalaja, G., 6, 20, 
152, 
OAU, 177, 
Obadare, E., 23, 34, 91, 
Obasa, P . K., 174, 
Obasanjo, O., 12, 20, 144, 
Odo, E., 34, 
Oduola, S. O., 41, 47, 
Ofonmbuk, T . I., 40, 47, 
Ogini, B., 160, 
Ogunyomi, P ., 160, 171, 
Ojo, E. O., 2, 16, 19, 57, 178, 
Okafor, E., 160, 171, 
Okon, G. B., 39, 47, 113, 
Okonkwo, I., 160, 169, 
Oloide, 49, 
Olumala, O. P . x, 
Omotoso, F., 13, 20, 
Onah, G., 58, 
Onoja, I. A., iv, 59, 75, 
Onyekpe, N., 156, 
orientation course, 163, 198, 
199, 
Osumah, O., 174, 175, 177, 
179, 180, 184, 
Ozohu, A. O., 154, 161, 
patriotism, 28, 106, 165, 
Peter , O., ii, 
political revelry, 60, 
political violence, 133, 138, 
post election litigation, 106, 
primary assignment, xiii, 33, 
70, 
public resources, 7, 
212
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Pyla-Mak Publishers Ltd., ii, 
Raimi, L., 91, 
reconciliation, xi, 18, 26, 155, 
172, 
reconstruction, xi, 26, 155, 
172, 
registration of votes, 68, 123, 
rehabilitation, xi, 26, 155, 172, 
re-run election, 67, 
rigging, 95, 
Russia, 1, 
Salim, A. S., 177, 
Sambisa forest, 88, 
SARS, 17, 
Sodaro, M. J., 10, 21, 
Todaro, M. P ., 161, 169, 
transparency, 53, 88, 
Ugbada, A. E., 1, 10, 21, 
Ukase, P ., ii, 
Ukpere, 2, 
Umoden, G., 91, 
Umoru, A. E., 30, 
UNDP , 5, 
unemployment, 65, 158, 166, 
Ungar , S., 8, 21, 
UNICEF, 28, 
United Nations, 21, 
UPGA, 134, 
UPN, 135, 
Uriah, O., 162, 163, 171, 
USAID, 84, 
voters education, 43, 
voting, 41,
WAP , 28, 
Warioba, J., 179, 
World Bank, 28,
Yakowa, P . I., 146, 
Yakubu, A. M., 184, 
Yar'adua, U. M., 145, 179, 
Zamfara, 147, 
213
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT