NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NATIONAL YOUTH 
SERVICE CORPS 
AND  
NATIONAL INTEGRATION  
    
 
 
 
 
 
 Editors  
Shuaibu Ibrahim 
Bem Japhet Audu 
Maryam Hamza 
Onah Peter Otumala 
  
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

ii 
 
 
 
 
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS AND  
NATIONAL INTEGRATION  
 
 
Copyright (c) 2021 Shuaibu Ibrahim, Bem Japhet Audu, 
Maryam Hamza, Onah Peter Otumala 
 
 
 
All right reserved 
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 
stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any 
means electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, 
without prior permission of the author, who is the copyright owner. 
 
 
ISBN: 978-978-58821-4-8 
 
Note: Views and opinions expressed in the book are entirely those of 
the chapter contributors and not that of the Editors. 
 
Printed and Bound in Kaduna-Nigeria. 
Using environmental sustainable paper materials by 
Pyla-Mak Press and Publishers Limited 
Kaduna, Nigeria. 
+234(0)8023633763 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

iv 
 
Safiya Abu Wada, is a lecturer in the Department of History and 
International Studies, Prince Abubakar Audu University, Anyigba, Kogi 
State.  
Suleiman Bilal Ishaq, is a lecturer in the Department of History and 
International Studies, Prince Abubakar Audu University, Anyigba, Kogi 
State. 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

iii 
 
NOTES ON CONTRIBUTORSNOTES ON CONTRIBUTORS NOTES ON CONTRIBUTORSNOTES ON CONTRIBUTORS    
    
Adeniji Olawale Abayomi, is of the Department of History and War 
Studies, Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. 
Anthony Ogidi is of the Department of Business Administration, 
Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria.  
Anyaraku Sewuse Yvonne, is of the Department of English, Benue 
State University, Makurdi. 
Bem Japhet Audu, is a lecturer in the Department of History and War 
Studies, Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. 
Dominic James Aboi, is in the Department of English and Literary 
Studies, Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria. 
Helen Nor Iguniwei, is of the Department of History and War Studies, 
Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. 
Isaac Itse Izan, is of the Department of History and War Studies, 
Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. 
Jamiu Yusuf Danga, is a lecturer in the Department of History and War 
Studies, Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. 
Lamido Abubakar Usman, is a lecturer in the Department of History 
and War Studies, Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. 
Maryam Hamza, is a lecturer in the Department of History and War 
Studies, Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. 
Mohammed Liman Murtala, is a lecturer in the Department of History 
and War Studies, Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. 
Philibus Audu Nwamagyi, is a lecturer in the Department Of 
International Relations, Greenfield University, Kaduna. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

v 
 
CONTENTSCONTENTS CONTENTSCONTENTS    
 
Contents - - - - - - -          v 
Preface - - - - - - -          vii 
Acknowledgment - - - - - -          x 
Introduction  - - - - - - -          xi 
 
1 Background to National Integration in Nigeria 
Jamiu Yusuf Danga   - - - - -          1 
 
2 Post-Independence and National Integration in  
Nigeria 
Isaac ItseIzan - - - - - -          18 
 
3 National Integration in the First Republic 
Bem Japhet Audu and Maryam Hamza  - -          32 
 
4 Nigeria and National Integration in the Fourth  
Republic 
Adeniji Olawale Abayomi - - - -          47 
 
5 The Establishment of National Youth Service Corp  
(NYSC) and its Impact on National Integration 
Safiya Abu Wada - - - - -          74 
 
6 NYSC Deployment of Corps Members as a Tool for  
National Integration 
Anyaraku Sewuse Yvonne - - - -          87 
 
7 National Youth Service Corps: Dynamics of  
Community Development Service for  
National Integration and Unity in Nigeria 
Philibus Audu Nwamagyi - - - -          105 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

vi 
 
8  NYSC and the Challenges of National Integration 
  Helen Nor  - - - - - -          124 
 
9 The NYSC and its Contribution to National Integration 
Suleiman Bilal Ishaq - - - - -          133 
 
10 The Quest for National Integration: The NYSC  
Approach 
  Usman Abubakar Lamido - - - -          149 
 
11 Inter-Ethnic Marriages and National Integration:  
The NYSC Approach 
Mohammed Liman Murtala - - - -          162 
 
12 Strategic Importance of NYSC to National Integration  
in Nigeria 
Jamiu Yusuf Danga - - - - -          177 
 
13 National Integration in Nigeria: The Way Forward 
Dominic James Aboi - - - - -          195 
 
14 Prospect of National Integration: The NYSC Approach 
Anthony A. Ogidi - - - - -          212 
 
15. Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: An Overview of 
His Achievements as the 18th NYSC Director-General 
Bem Japhet Audu and Maryam Hamza  - - -          229 
 
Index  - - - - - - -          250 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

vii 
 
PREFACEPREFACE PREFACEPREFACE    
National Integration is the hallmark of unity and development in any 
polity. National integration is the awareness of a common identity 
among the citizens of different ethnic groups in a country; this means 
that although we belong to different ethnic groups, religious and speak 
different languages, yet we recognize the fact that we are all one.It is 
not just a feeling of national belonging, but also, the feelings which 
brings people of all dialects, culture and beliefs together in common 
endeavour, goals and aspirations. National integration has for a long 
time, become an increasingly investigated topical issue, due to its 
multi-dimensional and overarching connotations especially in relation 
to most African nations. 
In Africa, National Integration is a much more herculean task. The 
countries that emerged at independence were not integrated as 
conventionally defined (people of different language, culture, historical 
experience and popular will coming together in the spirit of national 
identity and cohesion). They were rather ethnic groups brought 
together by accident of history (colonialism). They do not only lack the 
determination to be integrated as defined above but also, the elites and 
leaders were not capable of creating the enabling environment for 
successful integration because most of the constituent groups have 
been impacted with hatred and dichotomy under a long period of 
exploited colonial rule. 
Nigeria emerged as a country within the imperialistic activities of 
Britain, which subjugated diverse nationalities and organized them into 
one state in 1914, with the amalgamation of the Northern and southern 
protectorates. At independence in 1960, the Nigerian state materialized 
with serious socio-political fundamental problems. The most critical 
challenge is lack of nation-building and leadership was blinded from 
unifying the people into a cohesive socio-political whole, the various 
entities that were lump together by the colonialists. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

viii 
 
The political and traditional leaders rather engaged in rancor and 
rivalries that widened existing gaps as exemplified by the following 
events that questioned the ability of Nigeria to build a strong, united 
and integrated nation: the declaration of the state of emergency in 
western Nigeria in 1962, the National Census crisis, the treasonable 
felony trials of 1963, the failure of the elections of 1964 and 1965, and 
the general strike of 1965 among others. By January 15, 1966, Nigeria 
experienced its first coup d’état to be followed six months later, on July 
29, 1966 by a counter coup, and subsequently, a massive civil 
disturbance that eventually culminated in a civil war. 
A critical problem was identified easily after the Nigerian civil war, was 
the general lack of national unity or integration across the country. The 
question of National integration stands at the very core of the political 
problems in Nigeria. The unforgettable experience of the civil war 
made both the government and the citizens of the country to start 
seeking for ways to build a strong, stable united political entity. This 
informed the change aimed at achieving national integration, economic 
development and social advancement. The government promulgated 
decree No. 24 of 1973 which formerly established the National Youth 
Service Corps scheme. It was imperative upon the Government (FMG) 
to secure the victory over the secession bid, by setting in motion 
several instruments to ensure unity and peaceful co-existence among 
all ethnic groups across the regions.  
The book explores the activities of the National Youth Service Corps 
towards engendering national integration; the NYSC and the prospects 
of national integration through inter-ethnic interactions like marriages, 
inter-group relations, and the NYSC activities as a veritable tool for 
national integration; the NYSC and the dynamics of community 
development service for national integration and unity in Nigeria. 
The book which is structurally made up of fourteen well-researched 
chapters, addresses the background to national integration in Nigeria 
from the pre-colonial to colonial and the fourth republic. To set the 
stage, the volume tackled fundamental concepts on integration, it 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

ix 
 
causes and the need for national integration in Nigeria. It also offers an 
understanding of the journey towards national integration in Nigeria, 
the characters and dynamics involved in instituting the NYSC as the 
most depended tool for national integration. 
In its quest to foster national integration, the NYSC has instituted some 
remarkable programmes which include: the orientation course, place of 
primary assignment, community development service and passing out 
ceremony. It is within the circle of these programmes that corps 
members tends to integrate and cultivate deeper understanding our 
collective existence through the interactions of corps members among 
themselves, the host communities, inter-marriages and work place as a 
result of familiarity during service year. 
This book also inculcates issues, challenges and prospects of NYSC 
towards national integration and development in spite of such existing 
areas of differences. It further investigates community service activities 
among the corps members and how it has fostered national integration, 
the conditions necessitating the deployment of corps members, mostly 
to states order than their states of origin and how this has impacted 
national integration. 
This volume would fill a great vacuum in knowledge, especially in 
contemporary Nigerian history by contributing significantly to the 
understanding of the NYSC as a catalyst for national integration in 
Nigeria. 
  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

x 
 
ACKNOWLEDACKNOWLED ACKNOWLEDACKNOWLEDGEMGEM GEMGEMENTSENTS ENTSENTS    
It is with profound gratitude that we acknowledge God Almighty, for 
without Him, this project would not have become a reality. We 
acknowledge with gratitude the chapter contributors for agreeing to 
write well-researched articles within a limited period. Their patience 
and perseverance in the course of this project is really commendable. 
We also thank our peer reviewers for their thought-provoking 
comments on the manuscripts. This helped tremendously in improving 
the quality of the chapters. Their patience through the peer review 
process is well acknowledged and commended.  
This project also benefitted immensely from some of the research 
institutions and libraries in and around Kaduna. Worthy of mention 
here are the Library of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), 
Yakubu Gowon House, Maitama, Abuja, Arewa House Kaduna and 
National Archives Kaduna. The staff and research fellows in these 
offices were very accommodating and helpful during the course of our 
research. 
Also, our profound appreciation goes to the Director-General of NYSC, 
Brigadier General (Assoc Prof) Shuaibu Ibrahim and his Staff who gave 
us unflinching support and ensured that this project is a huge success. 
Without the DG, the project would have suffered setbacks beyond 
measure. 
We acknowledge the support received from some of our dependable 
friends and colleagues. Most of them are Research Fellows of the Centre 
for the Study of Leadership and Complex Military Operations, 
(CSLCMO) Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. They are: Jamiu Yusuf 
Danga, Mohammed Liman Murtala, Suleiman Bilal Ishaq, Jack Jeremiah, 
Alabi Ezekiel, Helen Noor, Blaise L. Archibong, Matthew Emmanuel, 
Abdullahi Isah, Suleiman Bashir Mohammed and Longe Ometere 
Esther. Thank you all. 
May God Bless us all. 
Shuaibu Ibrahim, Bem Japhet Audu, Maryam Hamza and Onah 
Peter Otumala.                                    April, 2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

xi 
 
INTRODUCTIONINTRODUCTION INTRODUCTIONINTRODUCTION    
    
Brief History of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) 
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) was established in 1973 by 
the government of General Yakubu Gowon. The history of the scheme is 
traceable to the events that took place in Nigeria towards the last half 
of 1960s. The years 1967-1970 were characterized by the Nigerian civil 
war. At the end of the war, the General Gowon administration came up 
with new policies that would promote post-conflict peace, 
reconciliation, rehabilitation and reconstruction. Consequently, the 
vital need for national unity led to the birth of the NYSC idea. The NYSC 
Scheme came into being through Decree No. 24 of 22nd May 1973. It 
states that the NYSC is being established with a view to the proper 
encouragement and development of common ties among the youths of 
Nigeria and the promotion of national unity. After 20 years of existence, 
the 1973 Decree was repealed and replaced with No. 51 of 16th June, 
1993, now referred to as the National Youth Service Corps Act, Cap. 
N84, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004. The Act is preserved by 
Section 315 (5) (a) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of 
Nigeria, 1999 (as amended), thereby, making the NYSC Act part and 
parcel of the constitution. 
According to Section 1(3) of the NYSC Act, the objectives of the Scheme 
are to:  
“(a)  inculcate discipline in Nigerian youths by instilling in 
them a tradition of industry at work and of patriotic and 
loyal service to Nigeria in any situation they may find 
themselves; 
(b) raise the moral tone of the Nigerian youths by giving 
them the opportunity to learn about higher ideals of 
nation achievements, social and cultural improvement;  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

xii 
 
(c)  develop in Nigerian youths the attitudes of mind, 
acquired through shared experience and suitable 
training, which will make them more amenable to 
mobilization in the national interest;  
(d)  enable Nigerian youths acquire the spirit of self-reliance 
by encouraging them to develop skills for self-
employment;  
(e)  contribute to the accelerated growth of the national 
economy;  
(f)  develop common ties among the Nigerian youths and 
promote national unity and integration;  
(g) remove prejudices, eliminate ignorance and confirm at 
first hand the many similarities among Nigerians of all 
ethnic groups; and  
(h)  develop a sense of corporate existence and common 
destiny of the people of Nigeria.” 
In order to achieve the objectives stated above, Section 1(4) of the 
NYSC Act provides that the Scheme shall ensure: 
“(a)  the equitable distribution of members of the service 
corps and the effective utilization of their skills in area 
of national needs;  
(b)  that are far as possible, Nigerian youths are assigned to 
jobs in States other than their States of origin;  
(c)  that such group of Nigerian youths assigned to work 
together is as representative of Nigeria as far as 
possible; 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

xiii 
 
 (d)  that the Nigerian youths are exposed to the mode of 
living of the people in different parts of Nigeria. 
(e)  the Nigerian youths are encouraged to eschew religious 
intolerance by accommodating religious differences;  
(f) the members of the service corps are encouraged to 
seek a year for their one year national service, career 
employment all over Nigeria, thus promoting the free 
movement of labour; 
(g)  that employers are induced partly though their 
experience with members of the service corps to 
employ more readily and on a permanent basis, 
qualified Nigerians, irrespective of the States or origin.” 
Basically, the aims and objectives of the NYSC is to reinforce 
institutional efficiency and effectiveness as well as youth development 
in the country. It is accepted in several quarters that NYSC is a viable 
platform for the transitioning of youths into self-reliant adults and the 
improvement of general welfare and development. The NYSC 
programme has since inception facilitated steady and effective supply 
and distribution of skilled manpower, breaking of social and cultural 
barriers as well as the building of friendly bridges across ethno-
linguistic boundaries. It has also assisted in the promotion of values, 
national unity and development, rekindled interest in neglected but 
vital areas of national development and promoted leadership qualities 
in the youths. The Scheme has four (4) cardinal programmes which are: 
Mobilisation/Orientation, Primary Assignment, Community 
Development Service and Winding-Up/Passing- Out Exercise. 
The maximum age requirement for youths under the scheme is thirty 
(30) years old. They are also engaged in community development 
programmes and activities. According to Section 2(2) of the NYSC Act, 
the only groups of youth exempted are those that have served in the 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

xiv 
 
Armed forces or the Nigerian Police for a period of more than nine (9) 
months or in the security agencies, those over thirty (30) years of age 
and those conferred with National Honours. In addition, the choice of 
youths above every other age group was based on the fact that they are 
considered the most active change agents needed in building a united 
Nigeria, and a way of achieving this is for the youths to imbibe and 
nurture a sense of common belonging and national consciousness 
which would transcend political, social, state and ethnic loyalties. 
At the onset of the NYSC in 1973, only 2,346 graduates were mobilized. 
However, judging by the evolvement of the Scheme, there has been a 
phenomenal increase in the number of graduates that are participating 
annually. NYSC is capable of bringing out the best qualities in Nigerian 
youth and imparting in them the right attitude and value for nation 
building that serves as catalyst to national development, sense of pride 
and fulfillment of its participating graduate youths. The criteria 
observed in the deployment of Corps members include:   
• the equality of states,  
• ability of states to absorb the service of participants,  
• posting based on concessional considerations (marital and 
health grounds), posting on demand from various federal 
government establishments,  
• the supportive role of a government is also increasingly 
becoming a factor in the placement of corps members,  
• the deployment of corps members has retained its traditional 
process with the majority of corps members going to the 
classrooms. 
The Scheme’s presence is felt and noticed in all the LGAs in the country, 
creating higher emphasis in the rural and grass root development in 
line with its objectives since inception.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Background to National Integration in Nigeria 
1 
 
 11 11    
    Background to National Integration in Nigeria 
 
 
Jamiu Yusuf Danga 
   
 
Introduction 
National integration is a critical aspect of nation-building that calls on 
ethnic and regional groups to surrender their loyalty for the unity and 
development of the nation. Mazrui observed that there are five 
dimensions to national integration; the fusion of norms and culture; the 
promotion of social independence; the narrowing of the gap between 
the elites and the masses, the urban and the rural areas, rich or poor 
etc, the resolution of emergent conflicts, and the sharing of mutual 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                          J. Y. Danga 
2 
 
experiences so that people can discover that they had undergone some 
important experiences together.1 
Idowu A. observed that national integration can also be seen as the 
process whereby several disparate groups within a given territory are 
united together or cooperate under conditions that do not appear to 
permit satisfaction of their system needs in any other way.2 According 
to Elaigwu, national integration is determined by the degree to which 
members and groups in a plural society adapt to the demands of 
national existence while co-existing harmoniously.3 On a practical note, 
national integration is a process, not an end in itself and it is usually 
affected by contending social forces. Ronen Dov observed that African 
borders were artificially created and various ethnicities or nationalities 
lumped together.4 This forceful integration by the colonialists had 
simply served as a functional integration to the extent that it benefited 
the economic and political aims of the colonialists. This point is critical, 
colonial manipulation of the ethnic factor had created a feeling of 
disunity, mistrust, and tension among various African groups.  
The decolonization period of Africa had ushered in a measure of 
integration, as several nationalists used nationalist fervor to appeal to 
the people to fight for independence. Ronen observed that this form of 
integration developed among many African countries; however, it was 
                                                           1  A. Mazrui, Cultural Engineering and Nation-building in East Africa, (North-
Western University Press, Evanston, 1983) 2 A.O. Idowu & U. Sayuti “Visiting the Hippopotamus: National Integration Issues in 
Nigeria Romanian Jouirnal of Regional Science Vol 10 No 1 (2016): 67-85; Fatile, 
J.O. and Adejuwon, K.D. “Niger Delta and the Struggle for Resource Control: What 
Implication for National Integration”, in Osuntokun, A and Ukaogo, V. (ed.), Niger 
Delta: Politics of Despair, Deprivation and Desperation, (Lagos: ICS Services Ltd, 
2012), 3J.I. Elaigwu “The Challenges of Unity in a Heterogeneous Society” Development 
Studies Review, Vol. 2, No. 1, (1987), pp. 1-20 4 D. Ronen “Alternative Pattern of African Integration” The Journal of Modern 
African Studies, Vol. 14, No. 4 (Dec., 1976), pp. 577-596 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Background to National Integration in Nigeria 
3 
 
rather short-lived.5 No sooner had African countries gained 
independence than they embarked on civil wars. Such was the case of 
Nigeria, in less than six years of self-rule and independence, Nigeria 
had towed the path of self-destructing that culminated in the 30 
months of civil war (1967-1970). 
In the period of decolonisation, a short-lived communal integration 
developed in some African states due to nationalist fervor, however, 
political mismanagement, ethnic chauvinism, nepotism, and other 
negative factors that marred the political sphere of many African 
counties led to a challenge of integration.  
This paper examines the background to national integration in Nigeria. 
It traces the attempt at forming a nation to the 1914 amalgamation of 
the country and the subsequent colonial policies entrenched to manage 
the diverse groups of Nigeria. National integration in postcolonial 
Nigeria involves attempts by the various postcolonial rulers to evolve a 
true nation that is devoid of ethnic rancour. Though there were policies 
evolved to ensure that there is integration, the lack of proper 
implementation has ensured the challenges that have served as 
stumbling blocks against national integration remain.  
 
Conceptual Clarification 
Duverger views national integration as a process of ensuring the unity 
of a society. Central to this process is the identification of harmonious 
behaviours that can foster peace and equity among the members of 
such societies. 6 This implies that integration promotes unity which 
encourages smooth interaction among the members of the given 
society based on certain established principles of fairness.  
                                                           5 Ronen “Alternative Pattern of African Integration…”p. 588. 6  M. Duverger, The Study of Politics. Hong Kong: Nelson Political Science Library, 
1976) 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                          J. Y. Danga 
4 
 
Shona (2003) sees national integration as the awareness of 
commonness among citizens of a state. He averred that it is: 
…the awareness of a common identity among the 
citizens of a country. It means that though we belong to 
different castes, religions, and regions and speak 
different languages, we recognized the fact that we are 
all one.7 
Shona shares a similar view with Duverger, however, he directly speaks 
of common identity, while Duverger does not necessarily emphasise 
the idea of commonality as a condition for sharing harmonious 
behaviours. Integration is about linking up disparate groups to pursue 
a common interests, by surrendering a measure of their attachment to 
their identities. 
National integration has also been viewed from the construct of nation-
building. Indeed, some scholars use the two-term interchangeably. 
Scholars like Deutch and Foltiz see nation-building and national 
integration as having the same strand of ideas that emphasise 
surrendering ethnic, geographical and linguistic loyalties to a more 
powerful authority which moulds this into force of national unity. 8 
Jacob and Tenue similarly view national integration from this 
perspective of nation-building by arguing that national integration is 
both a state of mind and a disposition, that lead citizens to be cohesive, 
act together and work in mutual programmes that lead to development.  
Liddle quips that national integration sets the limits on consensus as 
well as the force of community needed to put a political regime in place 
that works for the citizens. A common denominator in these definitions 
is the view of national integration as a process of pursuing a nation’s 
                                                           7K.  Shona, “National Integration: Complete information on the meaning, features 
and promotion of national integration in India” (2013), 8 K. W. Deutch, and W. J,  Foltz Nation Building, (Atherton Press, New York, 1963) 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Background to National Integration in Nigeria 
5 
 
interest that is greater than the parochial interest of a specific ethnic 
group. 
 
Citizenship 
Central to the idea of national integration is the role of the cititinzenry. 
According to Edosa, citizenship is closely related to indigenship within 
the Nigerian context. This is because, in many states or communities in 
the country, a Nigerian citizen may be seen as a non-citizen or non-
indigene, and therefore, may not enjoy (all) the rights and privileges 
available to those regarded as bona fide citizens or indigenes of the 
state or community in question. 9 
Heywood defines citizenship as is a member of a political community, 
which is defined by a set of rights and obligations. “Citizenship, 
therefore, represents a relationship between the individual and the 
state, in which the two are bound together by reciprocal rights and 
obligations”10 from these definitions, one can view citizenship as both 
legal status and as an identity. Citizenship is a legal status and an 
identity. Thus, there is an objective dimension of citizenship: specific 
rights and obligations which a state invests in its members, and a 
subjective dimension: a sense of loyalty and belonging. 
 
Background to National Integration 
Nigeria is made up of heterogeneous peoples with many cultures, 
ethnicity, and religious practices this implies national integration. poor 
management of the country’s diversity his has often led to rivalries that 
have caused violent confrontation. Nigeria has three super ethnic 
groups which were the initial bases of the country’s division during the 
                                                           9  E. Edosa “National Integration, Citizenship, Political Participation and Democratic 
Stability in Nigeria” An International Journal of Arts and Humanities” Vol. 3 (3), 
S/No 11, July, (2014):61-82. 10 A. Heywood,  Political Ideas and Concepts. An Introduction. (New York: St. 
Martin’s Press, 1994) 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                          J. Y. Danga 
6 
 
colonial era; the Hausa-Fulani in the Northern region, the Yoruba of the 
Western region and Igbo in the Eastern region. However, there exist 
other minority ethnic groups within each region that have unique 
ethnicities different from these big three such as Ijaw, Kanuri, Igala, Tiv, 
and Efik among others. 
The British colonial government amalgamated Nigeria in 1914 for 
administrative convenience, lumping the Northern protectorate and 
Southern protect to form Nigeria. This amalgamation has continued to 
haunt Nigeria’s unity and pose challenge for national integration. The 
arbitrary creation of a union without inputs from the people continues 
to haunt policy decisions in the country.  
As a way of managing the ethnic diversity of Nigeria, the Richard’s 
constitution of 1946 created three regions in Nigeria, Northern Region, 
Eastern Region, and Western region. This was strengthened in 1954 
when the Lyttleton constitution specified a federal system in which 
these regions were to exist.  These regions became the units for the 
political contest that has continued to artificially exist till date. Ethnic 
minorities within these regions clamoured for political inclusion, this 
led to the setting up of the Willink’s Commission in 1957 to consider 
the fears of minorities. However, that commission achieved very little 
in terms of allaying the fears of ethnic minorities.  
The adoption of a federal system in 1954 created a need to fill the 
bureaucracy of each region up with Nigerian nationals. That 1954 
constitution made provision for the establishment of public service 
commission (PCC) and each region was required to recruit manpower 
for their bureaucracy. Hence, the Federal Civil Service witnessed a 
process of Nigerianization.11 The nigerianisation process was aimed at 
forging  The civil service particularly was meant to provide advice to 
the political class while performing administrative and bureaucratic 
                                                           11 Edosa “National Integration, Citizenship…” 78 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Background to National Integration in Nigeria 
7 
 
duties. This meant that each region was saddled with the task of 
carrying out recruitment into the civil service. A major basis for 
recruitment into the regional civil was educational training. Hence 
competition for trained manpower ensued in each region.  
However, during the Lancaster House conference in 1957 and 1958, the 
Northern region made the demand for a quota system at the 
constitutional conferences. They made this demand against the 
backdrop of the educational imbalance which was caused by the 
colonial government. While the Western and Eastern regions had made 
gains in education as a result of colonial policy, the North was behind 
these regions because western education was extended to the region 
towards the end of the colonial period.  
However, that demand for a quota-based representation was rejected 
on the basis that creating a quota system in the public service will 
create a vacuum in the sense that positions will have to be kept open 
before personnel will be trained and then they employed into the 
vacant positions. Therefore the idea of a quota system in the federal 
and regional bureaucracy was jettisoned. Nigeria’s first republic (1960-
1966) was an intense era of politics; regional based leaders used 
ethnoreligious biases to engage in national politics, the inability to 
evolve a national-based leadership that can mould the contending 
voices for national development participated in the demise of that 
republic.  
Before 1967, Nigeria continued to operate the regional system, four 
regions were the bases of development and the federal structure, 
namely Northern, Western, Eastern regions, and the Mid-western 
region created to factor ethnic minorities in the various regions. 
Following the military takeover of 1966, and in a bid to win the 
Nigerian Biafran war (1967-1970), the Head of the military 
government of Nigeria, General Yakubu Gowon jettisoned the regional 
system and created a 12 state structure in 1967. Development was to 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                          J. Y. Danga 
8 
 
be done at the centre; states, not regions became the federating unit of 
Nigeria. This created the pattern for the subsequent creation of states 
in Nigeria.  
In 1976, Gen. Murtala Muhammed created more states bringing the 
total to 19. With 10 in the North and 9 in the South, in 1987 General 
Babangida created 2 states, and in 1991, he added 9 states, making 
Nigeria a 30 states structure with 15 in the North and 15 in the South. 
This was made 36 in 1996 by General Sani Abacha, by this creation the 
North had 19 states and the South had 19 states with a federal capital 
territory. But this balance is a façade because the North and South are 
further divided into geopolitical zones namely, Northwest, Northeast, 
and Northcentral, while the South is divided into South-South, 
Southwest and Southeast. Each of these regions has 6 states except the 
Southeast which has 5 states; this has created a measure of 
disenchantment among the Eastern people. There has been a continued 
clamour for the creation of at least one more state in the Southeast to 
ensure balance.  
It should be said that before the 36 states structure presently 
operational in Nigeria, it was obvious that there was an imbalance in 
the distribution of national resources. More so, minority voices within 
larger states were drowned by elites of the three big ethnic groups, 
Hausa, Igbo, and Yoruba whose main interest was the appropriation of 
national resources to their ethnic groups.  
 
Challenge to National Integration in Nigeria  
Ethnic Militias  
Onifade observed that one of the major challenges of integration is the 
calling upon ethnic militias. According to her, a new dimension to 
Nigeria’s ethnoreligious violence is the increasing recruitment and 
mobilisation of ethnic and regional militias, vigilantes, and other armed 
groups: the Oodua People’s Congress in Yorubaland, the Arewa 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Background to National Integration in Nigeria 
9 
 
People’s Congress in the north, the Bakassi Boys in the east, the Egbesu 
in the south, and the emergence of a supercilious army of terror 
merchants who represent contending interests to Nigeria’s detriment. 
These hydra-headed conflicts imply that national integration suffers, 
there is increasing insecurity of citizens and property in the country, 
foreign investment is deterred and economic development is stymied. 
Ethnicity and identity politics. 
Identity politics have constrained national integration in Nigeria. 
Politicians tend to call on ethnic identity during election campaigns as a 
way of securing political power. More often than not, political parties 
bicker about zoning formula, minority, and majority rule among others. 
These issues have deprived the country from evolving a truly national 
leadership as ethnic groups agitate for individuals from their areas.  
Again ethnic factor has played out in every aspect of national life, acess 
to national resources is through ethnic affiliation. Securing jobs, 
contracts or excelling in the civil and public service owes much to 
ethnic appeal. There is a tendency to focus on the ethnic idenitity of 
individuals during promotion than their actual capacity to excel in a 
position.  
 
Absence of Rule of Law 
Constitutionalism and sanctity of the rule of law principle is germane to 
effective governance, and security of life and property. Rule of law is 
one of the attractions of democracy. Democracy is more than the 
people’s rule. It symbolizes a meaningful and broad competition for 
public positions through periodic, free, and fair elections, and as 
determined by the constitutional arrangement of the country in 
question. The rule of law, underpinned by an independent judicial 
system, implies a functional legal framework that helps to ensure 
settlement of conflicts between the state and individuals on the one 
hand and among individuals or groups on the other. Lack of judicial 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                          J. Y. Danga 
10 
 
independence and its associated ills, a recipe for misgovernance and 
maladministration, particularly by the executive arm of government. 
Religious Conflict 
The religious challenges faced by Nigeria are occasioned by issues 
between Christians and Muslims. In many instances, religious violence 
has occurred over trivial issues, or issues in the international scene that 
has no direct relevance to Nigeria. For instance, after the Charlie Hebdo 
issue in France, religious conflicts sprang up in many parts of northern 
Nigeria. Similarly, in the early 2000s, the conflict over the imposition of 
Sharia law in many states of northern Nigeria had led to bloodletting 
and destruction of properties. On the other hand, religious factors have 
often been used to justify inter-ethnic strife. Religious conflicts have 
therefore been a constant threat to national integration in Nigeria. 
 
Bad Governance  
Leadership is, no doubt, a key factor in the whole gamut of public 
administration and the management of societal affairs. In the light of 
this, Nigeria’s lack of capacity in terms of the attainment of effective 
governance that addresses the issues of corruption, human rights, and 
mobilization of human and material resources for sustainable 
development is generally traced to leadership failure. State capacity to 
deal with contemporary issues of governance has hampered national 
integration in Africa. Indeed, many states of Africa have been unable to 
provide basic governace that includes visionary leadership which 
guides creative solution to national issues such as corruption, 
nepotism, lack of electricity, ethnocentrism, poverty, maladministration 
and lack of accountability have been a major challenge of governance in 
Nigeria. Bad governance is a major challenge to national integration 
because it derives the general populace the basic necessity for 
existence. This put pressure on the state as various ethnic groups 
compete negatively for scarce national resources, thereby pressuring 
the factors that unite. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Background to National Integration in Nigeria 
11 
 
Akinola observes that governance in Nigeria as in other African and 
Third World countries have been driven by self interest and primordial 
sentiment, this ensures that only those within the corridors of powers 
and with connection to those holding public and powerful offices in the 
Federal level can influence decisions that favour individuals.12  This 
implies that group interest is foregone for personal interest, indeed, to 
secure lucrative contracts and jobs in Nigeria, it is expected that one is 
affiliated to a highly placed individual, hence, the idea of meritocracy 
has mostly gven way to mediocrity. Bad governance is even more felt at 
local level where governance is perceived by the people as simply those 
that “collect taxes” this notion of local government authority has to do 
with fact that basic governance is totally absent at the local level except 
where collection of rate and taxes are involved. 
 
Strategies to Promote National Integration 
Since independence there have been attempts at promoting national 
integration, though, these attempts are constrained by several factors, 
they are nonetheless pivotal to the maintenance of Nigerian nationality 
since independence, some of the attempts are analysed below: 
 
Federal System  
Nigeria operates a federal system as stipulated in the 1999 constitution 
in which the federating states represent the numerous multiethnic, 
multicultural and multi-religious groups. There are 36 states and a 
federal capital system.  There is a federal (bicameral) legislature that 
draws members from all the federating units based on population and 
constituency delineation.13 
                                                           12 A. Akinola “Bad Governance in Nigeria Journal of Sustainable Governance 8(1) 
(2012): 65-78 13 See Asaju, K. &Egberi, T. Federal character and national integration in Nigeria: 
The need for discretion and interface. Review of History and Political Science Vol. 
3, No. 1, (2015). pp. 126-134 URL: http://dx.doi.org/10.15640/rhps.v3n1a12.; 
Gberevbie E. D. &Ibietan J. (2013). Federal character principle and administrative 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                          J. Y. Danga 
12 
 
While there are states legislatures that make laws for each federating 
state. The country is divided into 6 geopolitical zones namely, 
Northcentral, North West, North East, South-South, South West, and 
South East representing the major ethno religious divides. In the North, 
there exists a Hausa-Fulani and mostly Muslim majority, while in the 
South are mostly Yoruba and Igbo majority who are mostly Christians. 
There exist in each of these regions minority groups that are located 
within the polities. While there is the middle-belt that occupies the 
North Central making up ethnic minorities in the region.  
 
Federal Character  
The federal character principle has been defined in many ways, while 
some define it in the light of affirmative action,14 (Obadahun, Otohinoyi, 
and Adamu: 2016) others see it as an attempt at ethnic balancing. 
(Osaghe: 1990) However, the definition adopted here is that of CDC’s 
report of 1977, which states that federal character refers to  
“the distinctive desire of the peoples of Nigeria to 
promote national unity, foster national loyalty and give 
every citizen of Nigeria a sense of belonging to the 
                                                                                                                                       
effectiveness in the Nigerian public service: challenges and prospects for 
sustainable development 1999:2012. Journal of sustainable development in Africa 
pp. 46-61.; C.J. Igbokwe-Ibeto, F, C. Agbodike, &R.O.  Anazodo, “The application of 
federal character principle and its implication on service delivery in Nigerian 
federal civil service” International Journal of human resource studies, Vol. 5, No. 3. 
(2015).  http://dx.doi.org/10.5296/ijhrs.v5i3.7763 accessed 2nd May, 2020. A. 
Kayode, Federalism and federal character principle in Nigeria: A dilution. Review of 
Public administration and management Vol. 3, No. 7. (2015). pp. 32-44. 14T., Wuam, Nigeria since 1960: a Comparative study in nation-building and 
development Journal of the Historical Society of Nigeria, Vol. 21 (2012). pp. 99-
116; Obadahun, O. Simon, Otohinoyi Samuel, and Adamu, OyorurashidaFederal 
character principle and the challenges of national integration in Nigeria: A 
comparative analysis of some federal appointments under Jonathan and Buhari’s 
administrations. Journal of sustainable development in Africa. Vol. 18, No. 5, 
(2016)  pp. 68-86 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Background to National Integration in Nigeria 
13 
 
nation notwithstanding the diversities of ethnic origin, 
culture, language or religion which may exist and 
which it is their desire to nourish, harness to the 
environment of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.”15 
 
Unity Schools 
Unity schools have served as avenue for peace and national integration 
in Nigeria. The role of education as avenue for peace is well known. The 
curriculum and activities of unity schools as aspects of educational 
action for promoting the concept of peace, it also concerns the contents 
of education and training, educational resource and material, school as 
an ongoing training for young people and adults.” Unity schools draw 
students from different states, and different religion. These schools 
may either be boys only, girls only or mixed, the aim is to ensure that a 
culture of peace must take root in the classroom from an early age. It 
must continue to reflect in the curricula at secondary and tertiary 
education. More still the skills for peace and non—violence can only be 
learned and perfected through practice. Therefore unity schools are 
panacea for evolving a strong, united Nigeria.16  
 
National Youth Service Corps 
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) was established in 1973 by 
the military regime of the Yakubu Gowon to promote peace and unity 
in Nigeria. The establishment of the NYSC scheme followed the events 
that took place in the country between 1967 and 1970. This period was 
the period   Nigerian experienced the Civil war. At the end of the war, 
the General Gowon administration came up with new policies that 
                                                           15J. I., Dibua Ethnic citizenship, federal character and inter-group relations in 
postcolonial Nigeria.Journal of the historical society of Nigeria, Vol. 20 (2011). pp. 
1-25. 16 Gbadamosi, L & Jeyesimi, G. Studies in Educational Planning and Administration 
(SEPA) vol. 4, No.1 A Journal of the National Institute for Educational Planning and 
Administration (NIEPA), Nigeria, (2010). 59-66. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                          J. Y. Danga 
14 
 
would promote post-conflict peace, reconciliation, rehabilitation and 
reconstruction17.  
The NYSC programme was established through Decree  Nº 24 , on  22nd 
May 1973  with a view to engaging graduates from higher  institutions 
of learning in community service and promotion of unity18. the 
fundamental aim of the scheme is to ensure that youths of Nigeria see 
themselves as part of a strong united nation that belongs to every part 
of the country. This spirit of unity has led to many youths settling in 
places other than their place of birth as they discovered the peaceful 
and harmonious nature of places they were posted to.  
 
Democratic Governance 
The government of a democracy is accountable to the people. It has the 
responsibility to fulfill its end of the social contract, while public 
officials (political office holders and civil servants) are social servants; 
they serve society and the population. The government has the 
responsibility to ensure equality and promote fundamental human 
rights. Heyman refers to the logic behind the historical Bill of 
Rights and insists that those who drafted the Bill of Rights were not 
insistent that government might do too little but that it might actually 
engage in so much responsibility. 
 
Conclusion 
Edosa E. argues that one of the ways of ensuring national integration is 
through citizen’s loyalty. In his view, the creation of a national culture 
is required to direct citizen loyalty to the nation.19 That is, there is a 
                                                           17  Okafor Chukwuemeka and Ani Johnmark, The National Youth Service Corps 
Programme and Growing Security Threat in Nigeria, Africa's Public Service Delivery 
& performance Review , Africa's Development watch , Vol 2 ( 2) , June 2012, 150-
151. 18  Okafor Chukwuemeka  and Ani Johnmark, The National Youth Service Corps, 
151. 19 Edosa National Integration…” p. 62. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Background to National Integration in Nigeria 
15 
 
need to build of culture of loyalty to the nation.  Citizen loyalty to the 
nation-state means that the citizens see themselves as one and thus 
able to work together for the overall good, peace, harmony and stability 
of the state. It is an environment like this that promotes stable 
democracy since everybody sees it as a collective goal to be pursued by 
both the big and the small in society.  
National integration is a process that entails consensus building, 
accountability and goodwill. Therefore, for Nigeria to truly evolve a 
strong united nation devoid of ethnic and religious rancour, the country 
must build strong institutions that have sustainable features and are 
not control by sentiments of politicians or cronies of the leader.  
Second, there should be a strong appeal to factors that unite the nation 
than factors that divide. More often than not, politicians are quick to 
harp on divisive issues that further strain the bonds of the country. 
Such divisive tendency must be abhorred and called out by all sections 
of the nation. There must be an attempt to collective take ownership of 
the challenges of national integration and create ways of fostering 
peace, unity and development. 
A strong federal government that is not corrupt ridden is capable of 
strengthening national integration in Nigeria. Therefore, attention 
should be paid to strengthening Nigerian federalism and making it 
work for the disparate sections of the society, the current exclusive 
nature of the federal structure that tend to emphasise the two major 
ethnic groups need to be reconsidered. All parts of the society must 
believe they are adequately catered for in the conversation over 
statehood.  
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                       
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                          J. Y. Danga 
16 
 
Bibliography 
 
Asaju, K. &Egberi, T. Federal character and national integration in 
Nigeria: The need for discretion and interface. Review of 
History and Political Science Vol. 3, No. 1, (2015). pp. 126-134 
URL: http://dx.doi.org/10.15640/rhps.v3n1a12.;  
Deutch, K. W. and Foltz W. J,  Nation Building, (Atherton Press, New 
York, 1963) 
Dibua J. I., Ethnic citizenship, federal character and inter-group 
relations in postcolonial Nigeria. Journal of the historical 
society of Nigeria, Vol. 20 (2011). pp. 1-25. 
Duverger, M. The Study of Politics. Hong Kong: Nelson Political Science 
Library, 1976) 
Edosa E. “National Integration, Citizenship, Political Participation and 
Democratic Stability in Nigeria” An International Journal of Arts 
and Humanities” Vol. 3 (3), S/No 11, July, (2014):61-82. 
ElaigwuJ.I. “The Challenges of Unity in a Heterogeneous Society” 
Development Studies Review, Vol. 2, No. 1, (1987), pp. 1-20 
Fatile, J.O. and Adejuwon, K.D. “Niger Delta and the Struggle for 
Resource Control: What Implication for National Integration”, in 
Osuntokun, A and Ukaogo, V. (ed.), Niger Delta: Politics of 
Despair, Deprivation and Desperation, (Lagos: ICS Services Ltd, 
2012), 
Gbadamosi, L &Jeyesimi, G. Studies in Educational Planning and 
Administration (SEPA) vol. 4, No.1 A Journal of the National 
Institute for Educational Planning and Administration (NIEPA), 
Nigeria, (2010). 59-66. 
Gberevbie E. D. &Ibietan J. Federal character principle and 
administrative effectiveness in the Nigerian public service: 
challenges and prospects for sustainable development 
1999:2012. Journal of sustainable development in Africa 
(2013). pp. 46-61.;  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Background to National Integration in Nigeria 
17 
 
Heywood,  A. Political Ideas and Concepts. An Introduction. (New York: 
St. Martin’s Press, 199 
Idowu A.O. &Sayuti U. “Visiting the Hippopotamus: National Integration 
Issues in Nigeria Romanian Journal of Regional Science Vol 10 
No 1 (2016): 67-85 
Igbokwe-Ibeto, C.J. Agbodike, F, C.  &Anazodo, R.O.   “The application of 
federal character principle and its implication on service 
delivery in Nigerian federal civil service”International Journal 
of human resource studies, Vol. 5, No. 3. (2015).  
http://dx.doi.org/10.5296/ijhrs.v5i3.7763 accessed 2nd May, 
2020.  
Kayode, A. Federalism and federal character principle in Nigeria: A 
dilution. Review of Public administration and management Vol. 
3, No. 7. (2015). pp. 32-44. 
Mazrui, A.  Cultural Engineering and Nation-building in East Africa, 
(North-Western University Press, Evanston, 1983) 
Obadahun, O. Simon, Otohinoyi Samuel, and Adamu, Oyorurashida 
Federal character principle and the challenges of national 
integration in Nigeria: A comparative analysis of some federal 
appointments under Jonathan and Buhari’s administrations. 
Journal of sustainable development in Africa. Vol. 18, No. 5, 
(2016)  pp. 68-86 
Okafor Chukwuemeka and Ani Johnmark, The National Youth Service 
Corps Programme and Growing Security Threat in Nigeria, 
Africa's Public Service Delivery & performance Review , Africa's 
Development watch , Vol 2 ( 2, June 2012), 150-151. 
Ronen D.  “Alternative Pattern of African Integration” The Journal of 
Modern African Studies, Vol. 14, No. 4 (Dec., 1976), pp. 577-596 
Shona, K.  “National Integration: Complete information on the meaning, 
features and promotion of national integration in India” (2013) 
Wuam, T., Nigeria since 1960: a Comparative study in nation-building 
and development Journal of the Historical Society of Nigeria, 
Vol. 21 (2012). pp. 99-116. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                               I. I. Izan 
18 
 
 22 22    
    Post Independence and National Integration in Nigeria 
 
 
Isaac Itse Izan 
 
 
Introduction 
Nigeria at independence became a nation of multi-ethnic, multicultural, 
multi-religious and with different castes of people agreeing to come 
together as citizens of a country. Nigeria is a country made up of more 
than 250 ethnic groups that are distinctively isolated from each other 
in terms of religion, language, culture, geography among many others. 
The people agreed to live together with one another as a nation and be 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Post Independence and National Integration in Nigeria 
19 
 
integrated for the purpose of co-existence, co-sharing of resources, co-
administration and co-development of the nation.1 
After independence, Nigerians seem not to be united as a nation but 
became polarised along ethnic, religious and regional affinities. The 
sense of oneness, unity, integration, togetherness, indivisibility and 
cohesion among citizens has been distorted and replaced by sectional 
interests, ethnocentrism and tribalism. Issues of national interest and 
national cohesion have become delineated. Therefore, the issue of 
national integration and unity has been in the front burner and became 
a topic of national discourse among various castes of citizens including 
scholars. There is the call for national integration and unity in line with 
the nation’s principles of unity in diversity to achieve national 
development. 
This paper discusses post-independence and national integration in 
Nigeria. The paper gives a historical overview of the problem leading to 
disunity, disaffection, and suspicion among others that emerged within 
Nigeria that stalls national integration. Also, the paper discusses the 
mechanism and the challenges of national integration in Nigeria. 
 
Background to National Integration in Nigeria 
The pre-colonial history of Nigeria gives insight into the problem of 
national integration in Nigeria. Prior to Colonialism and later 
amalgamation of Nigeria in 1914, Nigerian history was rather the 
history of different tribes and ethnic groups. These tribes and ethnic 
groups existed but with very limited links and relationships. The area 
which came to be called Nigeria was inhabited in the North by the 
Hausa/ Fulani under the Sokoto Caliphate, the Kanuri, Shuwa and many 
other ethnic groups in Kanem Borno Empire and the numerous polities 
in central Nigeria. 
                                                           1 E. U, Usue, Religion and National Integration in Nigeria: A Transcendental 
Religious Perspective. Theologia Viatorum 35.1.2011.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                               I. I. Izan 
20 
 
In the west were the Yoruba kingdom of Oyo Empire and the Benin 
Kingdom. In the east were a number of semi-autonomous Ibo (Igbo) 
states. The Niger Delta area was occupied by Urhobo, Ijaw and many 
other small states. Each of these states and empires had their own 
system of administration, religions and cultures. British colonization of 
the area to become Nigeria formally began in 1861 with the annexation 
of Lagos2and at the western region which became the first colony. 
Other areas later fell under British rule and the north became a 
protectorate in 1900. The northern region was administered separately 
as the northern protectorate while the western and eastern regions 
were jointly administered as the southern protectorate. By 1914, the 
two regions were merged together or amalgamated to become a single 
geographical entity called Nigeria. 
From the amalgamation till the independence period, Nigeria became a 
multi-ethnic, multi-religious and a heterogeneous society where the 
ethnic groups are woven together through trade, marriages and 
intergroup relations. The Colonial government in an attempt to 
administer the area called Nigeria introduced the indirect rule system 
where the traditional rulers were engaged in administration under the 
control of the British Colonial Office. The indirect rule succeeded 
partially in the west but did not succeed in the east; the colonial 
government then introduced a system of warrant chiefs since there 
were no traditional chiefs in the area. Administratively, the regions 
were ruled differently. 
By 1920s, there were agitations for political participation from among 
the colonised people, the colonial government through the Clifford’s 
Constitution provided for the creation of Legislative Council then 
political parties were created to give room for people’s participation in 
                                                           2 V. F, Peretomode, Political Parties and Problems of National Integration: A Case 
Study of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Unpublished M.A. Thesis. Oklahoma 
State University. 1985.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Post Independence and National Integration in Nigeria 
21 
 
government. The first political party was the Nigerian National 
Democratic Party (NNDP) founded by Herbert Macaulay. Elections 
were conducted but the elected officials were only limited to debating 
on issues rather than governance. Agitation for self- determination 
began as more political parties sprang up like the Nigerian Youth 
Movement (NYM) and National Council of Nigeria and the Cameroons 
(NCNC). 
 Nationalists emerged against colonialism but they were regional and 
sectional in outlook. The political parties began to be regional as the 
country was divided into three regions, the northern, western and 
eastern regions. A central legislative council was created to represent 
their regions at the centre and regional representatives were created at 
each region to represent in the regions. The country became divided 
along regional basis but federal in nature.  
Nigeria continued along divergent political, economic, and social 
developmental trends as it slides towards independence. By 1957, the 
western and eastern regions were granted self-government status 
while the north attained self-government status in 1959. Thus at 
independence in 1960, Nigeria consisted politically of Western, 
Eastern, and Northern Regions, which effectively reinforced Nigeria’s 
major geographical, cultural, and ethnic groupings with the Hausa and 
Fulani concentrated in the north, Yoruba in the southwest, and Igbo in 
the southeast.3 Therefore, the nation’s governmental structure both 
unified the country as a political entity while incorporating 
fundamental political geographic divisions. 
 
Post- Independence and Issues of National Integration 
At independence, Nigeria became a sovereign nation and ready to chart 
a course for its development. The new government tried to bridge the 
                                                           3G. McLoughlin, & C. J, Bouchat, Nigerian Unity: In the Balance. U.S Army War 
College, Strategic Studies Institute. 2013. P5 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                               I. I. Izan 
22 
 
gap of division between and among the regions by making coalitions to 
form a national government. The Northern People’s Congress (NPC) in 
coalition with the National Council of Nigeria and Cameroon (NCNC) 
formed a unity government; the coalition brought together the most 
conservative (NPC) and the most radical parties (NCNC) at the federal 
level. Sir Abubakar Tafawa  Belawa became the first Prime Minister 
from the NPC while Nnamdi Azikiwe became the President. 
The Northern People’s Congress (NPC) and National Council of Nigeria 
and Cameroon (NCNC)4 coalition government technically meant that 
the Hausa-Fulani and Igbo had reached an understanding while the 
Yoruba, Action Group (AG) had been pushed to the political margins as 
Opposition. As the western region became the major opposition, there 
was still rivalry in the region; the western regional conflict was 
between supporters of Akintola and Awolowo. It was this chaotic 
situation that resulted into conflicts in the western region.  
The power play between and among the various ethnic nationalities 
had left the ethnic minorities marginalised, but the understanding 
between the Igbo and Hausa-Fulani soon broke down with the military 
coup of January 15, 1966. The second coup ushered in Lt Colonel 
Yakubu Gowon to become the Head of state in 1966. He tried to bring 
peace and harmony. He changed the unitary system back to federal 
system of government. During this period, there were still killings of 
Ibos (Igbos) in the northern part of the country. The outcry resulted in 
the secession of the eastern region which later culminated into a civil 
war. 
The Nigerian civil war further reinforced the internal divisions and 
tensions between the various people and groups within the Nigerian 
State and consequently, paved the way that the various issues that 
arose would be handled in the coming years. The Civil War lasted from 
                                                           4 P. A. Edewor, (et al) “Managing Ethnic and Cultural Diversity for National 
Integration in Nigeria” Developing Country Studies. Vol.4, No.6, 2014 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Post Independence and National Integration in Nigeria 
23 
 
1967 to 1970. After the civil war, the union was restored again and the 
challenge was achieving unity in diversity and national integration. 
 
Mechanisms for National Integration in Nigeria 
Since independence in 1960, national integration has been a top 
priority of the various governments that emerged in Nigeria. The 
establishment of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) scheme, the 
Unity Schools, the Federal Character Principle, and State Creation are 
examples of state policies intended to achieve this goal. Although these 
integration policies and programs have fallen far below expectation, 
more needs to be done because the interplay between the centrifugal 
forces that tear the country’s unity apart and the centripetal forces that 
have kept Nigeria as a whole are still deep seated in national life. 
The proper handling of ethnic conflicts is a mechanism for national 
integration in a heterogeneous society like Nigeria. Conflict cannot be 
completely removed from human society but they can be reduced or 
controlled so as to foster unity in diversity. Institutionalization of 
ethnic conflicts  entails  entrenching  ethnic  differences  within  a  set  
of  rules  agreeable  to competing groups.5 
Lack of adequate representation by the ethnic groups constitutes a 
great threat to national integration. In realization of some inherent 
cleavages of inequalities, the federal character principle was 
introduced. The effectiveness of this policy measure in fostering 
national integration as well as promoting national development in 
Nigeria has been one controversial and problematic issue.6 Despite 
that, it has helped in uniting Nigerians. 
                                                           5 O. Nkwachukwu, ‘Theories and Practice of Ethnic Conflict Management in 
Nigeria’, in Augustine Ikelegbe(ed) Oil, Environment and Resource Conflict in 
Nigeria. Munster: LIT Verlag. 2013. P4. 6 K. Asaju & T. Egberi,  “Federal Character and National Integration in Nigeria: The 
Need for Discretion and Interface”Review of History and Political Science  June 
2015, Vol. 3, No. 1, pp. 126-134 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                               I. I. Izan 
24 
 
The Federal Character system as a mechanism reduces marginalisation, 
therefore, is an effective tool towards national integration. The federal 
character accommodates the diverse ethnic groups and the large 
population of the country in regards to sharing of national resources 
and opportunities in terms of employment, allocation and distribution 
of projects and infrastructure among others. Federal character helps to 
pool together, harness, actualise and utilise potential human resources 
for the purpose of national integration and development. 
Inter-marriage and cultural festival promotions will assist in creating 
cultural and religious tolerance among Nigerians. The spate of religious 
intolerance in Nigeria especially between the two dominant religions: 
Christianity and Islam have led to suspicion, conflict as well as divisions 
in Nigeria. The promotion of intermarriage among citizens will go a 
long way in national integration.  
 
National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and National Integration in 
Nigeria 
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) constitutes one of the major 
policies and program of government to achieve national integration in 
Nigeria. The goal of the program is to call for unity among the diverse 
ethnic groups and to reconcile the people after the Civil War from 1967 
to 1970. The Military Government under the administration of General 
Yakubu Gowon at the time saw the urgent need to heal the nation of the 
emotional wounds inflicted on it by the war, having secured the victory 
over the failed attempt at secession by the Biafran nation, the 
administration came up with a program that will ensure a peaceful co-
existence among all ethnic groups across the nation Nigeria. The 
immediate task of the government was to design programs and pursue 
policies that promote national unity, disregard points of divergence 
among constituent groups, and foster greater inter-ethnic and religious 
understanding and harmony. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Post Independence and National Integration in Nigeria 
25 
 
The objectives of the program include among others the development 
of common ties among the various youths, promote national unity by 
ensuring that the youths are assigned to jobs in states other than their 
states of origin. This is with the view to removing prejudices and 
eliminating ignorance among the young graduates the emerging elites.7  
The need to engage the youth at such a time was based on the fact that 
they, above other groups, were considered as the viable change agents 
required for building a united Nigeria, and by the fact that such 
engagement with the youth gives a sense of belonging, reduce 
unemployment and the migration of young unskilled people from rural 
areas to urban areas as well as create in them a national consciousness 
that is geared towards political, social, state and ethnic loyalties. This is 
coupled with the fact that the youths constitute a dominant force for 
national mobilization and growth and therefore required an 
investment for their future. 
The choice of using youths for the programme and not every other age 
group was based on the fact that they are considered as change agents 
needed for national integration and building a united Nigeria.8 To 
achieve this, the youths are to imbibe and nurture a sense of common 
belonging and national consciousness which would transcend political, 
social, state and ethnic loyalties. 
The official stand of the NYSC on posting is that all postings should be 
outside the participant’s state of origin, except on marital and health 
grounds is noteworthy because it definitely will enhance integration. 
 
 
 
 
                                                           7NYSC, “National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Handbook,” Abuja: NYSC. 1999.  8L. Oluwalogbon “The Future of National Youth Service Programme: Any Hope for 
National Integration?”Journal of Public Administration and Governance ISSN 2161-
7104 2019, Vol. 9, No. 2 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                               I. I. Izan 
26 
 
Challenges to National Integration in Nigeria 
Nigeria is challenged by the issues of gross intolerance, distrust, 
ethnicity, corruption, and most dangerously, insecurity, which seems to 
be a formidable force undermining national cohesion and unity in high 
measures.9 The poor implementation of the rule of law and elements of 
inequality are also issues that continue to practically create conflicts, 
disorder and instability and needs to be tackled to the benefit of all 
citizens of the nation. 
The implementation of the Rule of Law is a major challenge confronting 
national integration in Nigeria. Its lack of implementation is evident in 
governments’ lack of respect for the constitution, the actions of some 
powerful and wealthy individuals who feel that they are above the law 
and the increasing cases of impunity and many other issues that are 
clearly undermining the proper adherence to the rule of law. As a 
democratic nation, Nigeria needs its citizens and governments to 
observe the rule of law if it hopes to strengthen its constitution, 
institutions and national integration. The constant flouting of the 
constitution; the instrument of rule of law indicates danger to building 
the Nigerian nation. 
The issues of terrorism and insecurity caused by insurgents and 
criminals, the attacks, kidnappings, clashes between herdsmen and 
farmers, increasing spate of armed robbery and banditry as well as 
rising levels of religious intolerance and hate speeches portray Nigeria 
as a disorganised and lacking in unity. The state of the nation is a 
reflection of the state of mind of its citizens and their fear for the future 
of the nation. Insecurity stands as one obstacle confronting the building 
                                                           9.J. Onyeakazi, “National Integration in Nigeria: A Philosophical Insight” 
International Journal of Novel Researches In Humanities, Social Sciences And 
Management Vol. 1. No. 1 December, 2018. P51 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Post Independence and National Integration in Nigeria 
27 
 
of strong national integration that can help the country to forge ahead 
with significant developmental strides.10 
The problem of inequality and other levels of social inequality in 
Nigeria has been a huge challenge to the state of national integration in 
the country. The marginalization of some groups in the society 
continues to contribute to a more divisive and disgruntled population. 
The increasing inequality and uneven development only help to 
increase agitations, conflicts and national distrust. The nepotistic 
nature of giving employment, awarding of national projects and sharing 
of political positions among others help in breeding ethnocentric 
suspicion, disharmony and antagonism which contributes in 
undermining efforts towards national integration.  
Nigerians have developed the habit of being ethnocentric and 
nepotistic in their journey as a nation. Nigerians are ethnocentric in 
their perception of issues concerning the integrity of the nation as a 
united democratic entity. Their behaviour exhibits the ethnic and tribal 
inclinations and antecedents that only aggravate the poor state of 
solidarity and unity among the nation’s many ethnic groups, creating 
social tension and disorder. The attitude of nepotism contributes in 
enhancing disunity among citizens of the nation. 
It is important to note that in spite of the many ethnic conflicts that 
characterised the Nigerian society, elections, allocation of resources 
and political patronage are enmeshed in ethnic considerations. The 
concepts and propositions such as geopolitical zones, zoning and 
rotational presidency seem to be more modest ways of perpetrating 
ethnic politics. 
                                                           10 S. C. Udeh, et al. Insecurity and national economic development: Implications 
for Nigeria’s Vision 20:2020. International Journal of Development and 
Management  Review. 2013 8. 93-109 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                               I. I. Izan 
28 
 
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) is facing serious challenges in 
its task of fostering national unity and integration. In the wake of the 
numerous political, ethnic and religious conflicts that have engulfed 
Nigeria and claimed the lives of some innocent Corps Members in part 
of the country, parents and guardians are increasingly expressing 
concerns on the security of their wards especially in crisis prone 
areas.11 
Also, the issue of posting took centre stage in the Nigerian Senate when 
Senator Olubunmi Adetunmbi, representing Ekiti North, sponsored a 
bill to amend the National Youth Service Corps Act. Among other 
things, the bill sought to give Corps Members the right to reject 
postings to states, where crises exist. However, the bill was discarded 
on the grounds that it is antithetical to the objective of national 
integration.  
 
Conclusion 
Nigeria emerged as a united country beginning from the amalgamation 
of the various societies that existed in the region into an independent 
nation in 1960. The task of national integration of the diverse polities 
has been a great challenge to the various governments that 
administered the country. So many efforts were made to keep the 
country united in the midst of conflict, chaos, civil war, hatred, 
suspicion and other threats that militate against the coexistence of the 
nation as a united entity. One key mechanism adopted by government 
to enhance national integration was the establishment of the National 
Youth Service scheme whereby graduate youths are mobilised and 
deployed to states other than their states of origin for the purpose of 
nation building and to foster togetherness in a nation where diversity 
                                                           11L. Oluwalogbon “The Future of National Youth Service Programme: Any Hope for 
National Integration?” Journal of Public Administration and Governance ISSN 
2161-7104 2019, Vol. 9, No. 2 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Post Independence and National Integration in Nigeria 
29 
 
has been deep rooted and is threatening the country. A nation that 
must develop has to imbibe unity so as to achieve progress but conflict, 
chaos and disharmony will not give a good environment for 
development. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                               I. I. Izan 
30 
 
Reference 
 
Ademoyega, A. Why We Struck: The Story of the First Nigerian Coup, 
Lagos: Sunshine Books. 1981. 
Usue,E. U,  Religion and National Integration in Nigeria: A 
Transcendental Religious Perspective. Theologia Viatorum 
35.1.2011.  
Schwarz,F. A. Nigeria: The Tribes, The Nation, Or The Race -The Politics 
of Independence. Cambridge: MIT Press, 1965. 
McLoughlin,G. & Bouchat,C. J, Nigerian Unity: In the Balance. U.S Army 
War College, Strategic Studies Institute. 2013. P5 
Onyeakazi,J.  “National Integration in Nigeria: A Philosophical Insight” 
International Journal of Novel Researches In Humanities, Social 
Sciences And Management Vol. 1. No. 1 December, 2018. P51 
Asaju K. & Egberi,T.   “Federal Character and National Integration in 
Nigeria: The Need for Discretion and Interface” Review of 
History and Political Science  June 2015, Vol. 3, No. 1, pp. 126-
134 
OluwalogbonL.  “The Future of National Youth Service Programme: Any 
Hope for National Integration?” Journal of Public Administration 
and Governance ISSN 2161-7104 2019, Vol. 9, No. 2 
NYSC, “National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Handbook,” Abuja: NYSC. 
1999. 
Nkwachukwu,O.  ‘Theories and Practice of Ethnic Conflict Management 
in Nigeria’, in Augustine Ikelegbe(ed) Oil, Environment and 
Resource Conflict in Nigeria. Munster: LIT Verlag. 2013. P4. 
Edewor, P. A. (et al) “Managing Ethnic and Cultural Diversity for 
National Integration in Nigeria” Developing Country Studies. 
Vol.4, No.6, 2014 
Udeh, S. C. et al. Insecurity and national economic development: 
Implications for Nigeria’s Vision 20:2020. International Journal 
of Development and Management Review. 2013 8. 93-109 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Post Independence and National Integration in Nigeria 
31 
 
Peretomode, V. F, Political Parties and Problems of National 
Integration: A Case Study of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. 
Unpublished M.A. Thesis. Oklahoma State University. 1985 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                   B.J Audu and M. Hamza  
32 
 
 33 33    
    National Integration in the First Republic 
 
 
Bem Japhet Audu 
and 
Maryam Hamza 
 
 
The efforts made by various post-colonial governments in Nigeria since 
independence to promote the process of national integration represent 
a continuation of the process of social integration, that has been going 
on in the Nigerian area even during the pre-colonial era as Thomas 
Hodgkins points out that: 
A variety of  links existed between the various states 
and peoples which were the predecessors of modern 
Nigeria-between the Kanuri-Borno, the Hausa states, 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Integration in the First Republic 
33 
Nupe and Jukun Kingdoms, the empires of Oyo and 
Benin, the Delta states and the loosely associated Igbo 
communities, their relationships (these Nigerian 
communities) sometimes took the form of war and 
enslavement…but they expressed themselves also 
through diplomacy, treaties…the diffusion of political 
and religious ideas, the borrowing of techniques and 
above all, trade1. 
 
Like many African countries, Nigerians struggled earnestly in attaining 
her independence in form of nationalism exhibited by nationalists in 
Nigeria, factors both internal and external contributed in no small 
measure in rekindling the spirit of nationalism in the hearts of the 
people. Among the internal factors was the exploitative nature of the 
British government, lack of freedom, the emergence of indigenous 
educated elite, the creation of political parties etc. Externally, the First 
and Second World Wars, the idea of Pan-Africanism from the West, the 
role of West African Students’ Union (WASU), inspired the nationalists 
struggle.  
Though Nigerians fought to free the country from the bondage of 
British colonialism, the independence is seen by many Nigerian 
scholars and international observers as a time bomb due to the 
intricate relations among Nigerians, especially across the dividing lines 
of regionalism, nepotism and confrontational politics.  This is because, 
the first Republic (1960-1966) was characterized by socio-political and 
economic contradictions deeply rooted in the colonial past. Among the 
remote factors that facilitated the political tension in the First Republic 
for example were regionalism, confrontational politics, and self-
government crisis of 1956 instigated by a motion put forward by Chief 
                                                           1 Hodgins, T.L., Nigerian Perspectives: An Historical Anthology. London: Oxford 
University Press, 1967.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                   B.J Audu and M. Hamza  
34 
 
Antony Enahoro, the population census of 1952, which was opposed by 
a coordinated Northern coalition, etc2 .  
Despite the transformation of the Nigerian State in the First Republic, 
in education, health, transportation, security and administration, some 
people argued that the leaders of the First Republic were corrupt3. This 
development finally led to the first Nigerian coup of 1966. Military coup 
d’états in most African countries were coordinated with a view to 
‘eradicating’ bribery and corruption4. While commenting on the 
reasons behind the Nigerian coup of 1966, Gbulie opined that: 
For far too long the country (Nigeria) had been at the 
crossroads tottering dangerously on the brink of 
disaster. The political situation was gradually but 
surely getting out of hand…but if the prevailing 
political situation had constituted an unpleasant jar to 
Nigerian nerves, the stench of corruption in high places 
had given her racking stomach-ache. The politicians 
and public officers had indeed let the nation down… 
many a public servant had prudently enriched himself 
with the ten per cent takings and kick-backs from 
contractors. Embezzlement, too, was on the increase5. 
 
 
                                                           2 For more information see, A. Bello My Life, London, Cambridge University Press, 
(1962), pp. 110-206.  3 L.A. Adamu Hafsatu Ahmadu Bello: The Unsung Heroine, Kaduna, Ahmadu Bello 
University Press, (1995), p. 93. See also, M. Danbatta The Pull of Fate: The 
Autobiography of Magaji Danbatta, Kaduna, Ahmadu Bello University Press, 
(2010), pp. 163-172.  4 A. M. Mainasara The Five Majors: Why they Struck, Zaria, Richard Clay Ltd, 
(1982), p. 7.  5 A. Ademoyega Why We Struck, Ibadan, Evans Brothers Ltd. See also, B. Gbulie, 
Nigeria’s Five Majors, Nigeria, Africane Educational Publishers Ltd, (1981), pp. 6-8. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Integration in the First Republic 
35 
As a clandestine excuse, Gbulie and his associates such as Ademoyega 
defended the coup. The coup no doubt closed an important page in the 
Golden history of the Nigerian state. The coup was plotted by five 
majors viz; Emmanuel Ifeajuna, Donatus Okafor, Nzeogwu Kaduna, 
Adewale Ademoyega, John Obienu, C. Anuforu, and H. Chukuka6.  
During the execution of the coup, many prominent Nigerians were 
assassinated by the coup plotters. Among those killed were; Sir 
Ahmadu Bello (The Premier of the Northern Region and the Sardauna 
of Sokoto), Sir Abubakar Tafawa Balewa (The Prime Minister of 
Nigeria), Chief Samuel Ladoke Akintola (The Premier of the Western 
Region), Chief Festus Okotie Eboh (The Federal Minister of Finance), 
and some senior northern Nigerian military officers like Zakari 
Maimalari, Col. Kuru Muhammad, Col. Ralph Shodeinde, Lieutenant 
Colonels Abogo Largema and Yakubu Pam7. 
The fact that the January coup was plotted and executed by seven 
majors, six Igbos and a Yoruba (A. Ademoyega), it was seen by the 
northern political establishment as an effort made to eliminate and 
emasculate the influence of the leaders of northern Nigeria. 
Unfortunately, the same coup brought Ironsi to power and his failure to 
ensure the execution of the coup plotters led to a counter coup that 
ended up with his assassination alongside Adekunle Fajuyi, the 
Governor of the Western region in July, 19668. This problem and many 
others finally snowballed into the Nigerian Civil War of 1967-19709. In 
essence, the major causes of the war were; Ojukwu’s refusal to 
acknowledge the authority and legitimacy of Gowon’s regime as he 
considered Gowon a junior officer in the hierarchy of the Nigerian 
Army. The sporadic killing of Igbos in the north in an attempt to avenge 
                                                           6 A. M. Mainasara The Five Majors: Why they Struck, (1982), pp. 22-23.  7 F. Forsyth The Making of an African Legend: The Biafra Story, London, Penguin 
Books Ltd, (1969), pp. 38-39.  8 M. Danbatta The Pull of Fate, (2010), pp. 184-185.  9 E. O. Ojukwu Because I am Involved, Ibadan, Spectrum Books Ltd, (1989), p. 175.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                   B.J Audu and M. Hamza  
36 
 
the death of northern leaders who were assassinated during the coup 
of 1966, the Igbo’s attempt to secede from Nigeria and the failure to 
maintain a common ground between the Biafrans and Nigeria, 
especially at the peace talks of Addis Ababa and Aburi in Ghana10. The 
Civil War claimed the lives of many Nigerians. Properties worth billions 
of Naira were also destroyed, as well as social amenities. 
Though it is obvious that in every war, there must be a winner and a 
loser, the Nigerian government tried to carry the Biafrans along as 
fellow Nigerians. This was more pronounced in the government’s 
programme of 3Rs (Rehabilitation, Reconstruction and Reconciliation) 
in an attempt to heal the wounds of the war and to foster national 
integration. 
After the Nigerian Civil War, Gowon’s administration thought it 
intelligible to introduce the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) as a 
programme that is solely meant to promote national cohesion, unity 
and integration. It is against this backdrop that this chapter examines 
the nature, dynamics and roles of national integration, particularly 
through the famous NYSC scheme. 
 
NYSC and National Integration 
The NYSC Scheme was introduced by the military government of 
General Yakubu Gowon in line with his famous 3Rs programme that 
was geared towards the promotion of peaceful coexistence in Nigeria, 
as well as national unity and integration. The Scheme was established 
by Decree No. 24, of 22nd May, 1973 with the sole aim to promote 
nationalism, particularly amongst the Nigerian youths. This no doubt 
instilled in such youths, the spirit of self-less service to the nation, as 
well as the concept of ‘oneness and brotherhood’ of Nigerians despite 
                                                           10 O. Ogunsanyo Awo: The Unfinished Greatness, Lagos, Pace Books and 
Periodicals, (2009), pp. 125-126.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Integration in the First Republic 
37 
socio-cultural and religious diversity’11. This is apparent in section 4 of 
the Act, which laid emphasis on national integration: 
That as far as possible Nigerian youths is assigned to jobs in state other 
than their states of origin. 
That such group of Nigerian youths assigned to work together is 
representative of Nigeria as far as possible. That the Nigerian youths 
are exposed to the modes of living of the people in different part of 
Nigeria. According to Onwere, the NYSC Scheme was introduced: 
To ease tensions and prejudices among the ethnic 
groups, the Nigerian government established the NYSC 
whose primary aim is to help weave a spirit of oneness 
among the ethnic groups and inculcate national loyalty, 
which should supersede all other loyalties. The NYSC 
thus, represents a massive exercise in national 
integration-an attempt to change the face of Nigeria 
through changing the attitudes of young graduates 
towards fellow nationals and the nation12 . 
 
Though national integration is an effort made to bring together people 
of different ethnic and socio-cultural background to live harmoniously 
with one another, it has never been an easy adventure due to a lot of 
factors. Wener argues that ‘national integration refers specifically to 
the problem of creating sense of territorial nationality, which 
overshadows-or eliminates subordinate parochial loyalties’13. In 
support of this view, Abia states that national integration ‘involves the 
                                                           11C., Onwere ‘National Youth Service Corps Programme and National Integration in 
Nigeria’, (Unpublished PhD Thesis, Department of International and Comparative 
Education, University of London, 1992), 90-96. 12 Onwere , ‘National Youth Service Corps Programme…’ p.93.  13 Weiner, M. Political Culture and Political Development. Princeton: Princeton 
University Press. (1967). 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                   B.J Audu and M. Hamza  
38 
 
amalgamation of disparate social, economic, religious, ethnic and 
geographic elements into a single nation state’14. 
To Morgan, national integration ‘involves the uniting of formerly 
separate groups into one group with the obliteration of any previous 
social and cultural group differences as well as the obliteration of 
separate group identification’15. Despite the effort made these scholars 
in defining the concept of national integration, they seem to imply that 
in the process of integration, various ethnic and socio-culturally diverse 
communities are brought together as one, which will never be possible 
in the true sense of the word. In integration, the goal is not to remove 
differences between various communities in a country, but to bring 
                                                           14 V.B.E. Abia, Government and Politics in Africa: A Comprehensive Approach. 
Lagos: BMB. (2006). 15 Morgan, C. Analyzing Sustainable Development Issues in Africa. London: 
Marriot. For more details on development studies (2006). see, Johnson, E. 
Essentials of National Unity and Development. Lagos: Powerhouse, Obiabor, M.M. 
(2016). Corruption and National Development in Nigeria. Umuahia: Ogun Printers 
Ltd, Okoroafor, E.C., Nzenwa, B.N. and Ezeibe, I.P. (2016). ‘Implications of Effective 
National Integration for Sustainable Development in Nigeria’. Nigerian Journal for 
Strategic Research and Development, 1(40), 99-120, Onyeakazi, J. and Okroafor, C. 
(2018). ‘National Integration in Nigeria: A Philosophical Insight’, International 
Journal of Novel Researchers in Humanities, Social Science and Management, 1(1), 
51-56, Ade-Ajayi, J.E. (1984). ‘The Problems of National Integration: A Historian’s 
Perspective’, NISER, University of Sokoto, Awa, E.O. (1983). ‘National Integration 
in Nigeria: Problems and Prospects’, A paper delivered at Bayero University, Kano 
under the Distinguished Lecture Series No. 5 of NISER, Federal Republic of Nigeria 
(1979). The Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1979. Lagos: 
Department of Information, Nnoli, O. (1980). Ethnic Politics in Nigeria. Enugu: 
Fourth Dimension Publishers, Mbanefo, A.C. (1983). ‘A Psychological Analysis of 
the Nigerian Civil War: Future Implications for Unity and Union’, A Paper 
presented at the National Conference on Nigeria since Independence at Ahmadu 
Bello University, Zaria, Eke, P.P. ‘Citizenship and Political Conflict: A Sociological 
Interpretation of the Nigerian Crisis’, Occasional Paper on Nigerian Politics, 
Amayo, A. (1983). ‘The Search for National Integration and National Identity in 
Nigeria since Independence: The Linguistic Aspect’, A paper presented at the 
National Conference on Nigeria since Independence, Ahmadu Bello University, 
Zaria. (1972). 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Integration in the First Republic 
39 
them to live in harmony with one another. In this case therefore their 
relationships would be defined by their differences.  
Bello while commenting on the nature and meaning of national 
integration observes that: 
National integration is conceived in terms of degrees. 
This framework generally means that there could be 
vertical integration, for instance, of social classes in the 
society in question, as well as horizontal 
integration…the integration of ethnic groups. In both 
variants it is better to refer not just to the fitting 
together of diverse sectional interests vertically or 
horizontally represented in the state system, but also 
their coherence (politically, socially and culturally, etc.) 
in some determinate way through the blurring of 
differences and prevalence of mutually consistent ideas 
or values in order to constitute an emotionally 
gratifying nation-state. Thus, national integration 
means the coexistence of diverse social groups, under 
the polity, be they classes or ethnic or interest groups, 
under some consistent national values or objectives in 
order to consolidate the unity of their people into “one 
indivisible and indissoluble sovereign nation”. Having 
adopted this definition, the next question is what 
would be the extent of the problem of national 
integration in Nigeria16.  
 
The NYSC Scheme is established to promote national integration in 
Nigeria. It is for much the same reason that the Nigerian government 
mandated all graduates who are not above 30 years at the point of 
graduation to be mobilized into the one year programme in different 
                                                           16 Bello, I.B. (1987). ‘Problems of National Integration in Nigeria’, The Indian 
Journal of Political Science, 84(2), 266-281.   
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                   B.J Audu and M. Hamza  
40 
 
Nigerian states other than their states of origin. This no doubt brings 
corps members closer to other cultures, traditions, norms and values. 
Through this system, many are educated about the nature and 
dynamics of other Nigerian communities and by extension, the Scheme 
shapes the leadership qualities of the Nigerian youths in many ways. 
The Scheme also promotes mutual understanding among various 
Nigerian ethnic groups, as well as foster religious tolerance, which has 
been bedevilling the nation for a very long period of time.  
To achieve the goal of national integration, the youths as the most 
populous and productive Nigerians, are therefore targeted for the NYSC 
programme. This is because, such youths are the future leaders who 
would ensure the development of the country.17 It is established that 
one third of the Nigerian population comprises of the youths who 
normally fall between the ages of 10 to 24. That is why when the 
Nigerian government wanted to cement the rough and chaotic 
relationships among Nigerians after the Biafran War, it introduced the 
National Youth Service Corps in 1973, which is purely youth centred in 
order to promote national unity and integration and socio-cultural 
tolerance, which are needed for sound leadership. Apart from the fact 
that the NYSC Scheme has the tendency of stimulating community 
development service and harness skills, creativity, and innovation of 
Corps Members, the Scheme is equally designed to foster unity and 
national integration by breaking all socio-political and economic 
barriers. That is why the programme encourages corps members to 
identify the needs of their host communities and address them head-on 
by executing some developmental projects, beneficial to Nigerians 
especially the poor and the needy18. 
 
                                                           17 Please, see records on the Nigerian population census of 2006. 18 NYSC, Decree and Amendments. No. 28 Vol. 60, May 23rd, Part A, 1973 and 
NYSC, A Compendium of the National Youth Service Corps Scheme: Ten Years of 
Service to the Nation (Lagos: NYSC Directorate, 1983). 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Integration in the First Republic 
41 
Challenges and Prospects 
National integration in Nigeria has a very long history. During the 
colonial period for instance, the British government introduced the 
Richards constitution in 1946. This constitution further divided Nigeria 
into three regions namely; North, West and East. At that time, all 
politicians would be elected by the people of their regions and by 
implication such politicians were representing the people of their 
regions, but not Nigeria as one single political entity. This problem 
therefore became part and parcel of the Nigerian mentality, which 
brought disunity across regional basis, hence laid the foundation and 
perhaps one of the major challenges of national integration today. 
Moreover, religious bigotry and manipulation by both clerics and 
politicians further pushed Nigeria into the abyss of religious 
intolerance. In an opening salvo, Usman asserts that, ‘The real basis of 
the manipulation of religion in Nigeria today is the need to obscure 
from the people of Nigeria a fundamental aspect of our reality: that is 
the domination of our political economy by a class of intermediaries 
who are being increasingly exposed…this is to enable this class to cover 
themselves with religious and ethnic coloration in order to further 
entrench division among our people, slow down their awakening, at 
any cost; even the unity of our country, for which so much has been 
sacrificed’ 19.Employing statistics, the author cited many examples of 
the manipulation of religion by the Nigerian elites, adherents to either 
Islam, or Christianity. For instance, the case of the owners of the Metal 
Box Company; Mr. Silas Daniyan and Alhaji Shehu Malami, whose 
accounts when published in the papers point to the fact that they 
compete in Metal Box to obtain scarce resources for the ethno-religious 
communities the names ascribe to them was a classic example. The 
author also argues that, ‘far from competing, every evidence indicates 
their role of “local nationals”, as Sir Alex Page, the chairman of the 
mother Metal Box company in Britain, calls them’.  
                                                           19Usman, Y.B (2020). The Manipulation of Religion in Nigeria, 1977-1987. Zaria: 
Yusufu Bala Usman Institute, 15.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                   B.J Audu and M. Hamza  
42 
 
The question of restructuring the Nigerian state is another big 
challenge to national integration. This is because many Nigerians 
looking at regional, local, ethnic or religious reasons feel that they have 
either been relegated to the back bench or marginalized. They also 
believe that unless the country is restructured they would not get what 
they ‘deserve’ and the issue of unity and national integration would be 
a mere dream. This problem is further compounded by the Niger Delta 
question, the Middle-belt identity and economic crises revolving 
around who owns or controls what.  
Though the NYSC Scheme plays an important role in fostering national 
unity and integration, the above-mentioned problems seem to have 
weakened the pillars of the programme. Unless the problems are 
profiled with a view to providing viable solutions, the questions and 
challenges of national unity and integration will surely be resurgent.  
 
Conclusion 
This paper examined the concept of national integration through the 
NYSC scheme. Though some scholars regard national integration as a 
process through which people of diverse socio-political and cultural 
backgrounds are brought together as one, this paper instead, argued 
that the central focus of national integration is not to unify people as 
one indivisible entity, but rather, to create a conducive atmosphere in 
which such people of variant norms and values can relate peacefully 
and in harmony.  In this sense, their relationships are defined by their 
differences.  
Drawing concrete examples from the Nigerian history and its early 
challenges to post-colonial nationhood, starting with the coup of 1966 
and later the Nigerian Civil War, this paper brought to the fore the need 
for a national programme that would ensure national unity and 
integration, which the NYSC Scheme seems to have represented and 
actualized in many ways. Though Nigerian national integration suffers 
immeasurably from regionalism, sectionalism, corruption and 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Integration in the First Republic 
43 
manipulation of religion, the paper suggests that with strong 
programme on ground that are geared towards the promotion of 
national unity and integration like the NYSC, the future of the country is 
bright.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                   B.J Audu and M. Hamza  
44 
 
Bibliography 
 
Abia, V.B.E. (2006). Government and Politics in Africa: A Comprehensive 
Approach. Lagos: BMB. 
Adamu,L.A.  (1995). Hafsatu Ahmadu Bello: The Unsung Heroine. 
Kaduna: Ahmadu Bello University Press.  
Ade-Ajayi, J.E. (1984). ‘The Problems of National Integration: A 
Historian’s Perspective’, NISER, University of Sokoto. 
Ademoyega,A. (1981). Why We Struck, Ibadan, Evans Brothers Ltd. See 
also, B. Gbulie, Nigeria’s Five Majors, Nigeria, Africane 
Educational Publishers Ltd. 
 Amayo, A. (1983). ‘The Search for National Integration and National 
Identity in Nigeria since Independence: The Linguistic Aspect’, 
A paper presented at the National Conference on Nigeria since 
Independence, Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria.  
 Awa, E.O. (1983). ‘National Integration in Nigeria: Problems and 
Prospects’, A paper delivered at Bayero University, Kano under 
the Distinguished Lecture Series No. 5 of NISER. 
Bello,A. (1962).My Life. London:Cambridge University Press.  
Bello, I.B. (1987). ‘Problems of National Integration in Nigeria’, The 
Indian Journal of Political Science, 84(2), 266-281.   
Danbatta, M. (2010).The Pull of Fate: The Autobiography of Magaji 
Danbatta. Kaduna; Ahmadu Bello University Press.  
 Eke, P.P. (1972). ‘Citizenship and Political Conflict: A Sociological 
Interpretation of the Nigerian Crisis’, Occasional Paper on 
Nigerian Politics. 
 Federal Republic of Nigeria (1979). The Constitution of the Federal 
Republic of Nigeria 1979. Lagos: Department of Information. 
Forsyth,F. (1969). The Making of an African Legend: The Biafra Story. 
London: Penguin Books Ltd.  
Hodgins, T.L. (1967).Nigerian Perspectives: An Historical Anthology. 
London: Oxford University Press.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Integration in the First Republic 
45 
Johnson, E. Essentials of National Unity and Development. Lagos: 
Powerhouse. 
Mainasara,A. M.  (1982).The Five Majors: Why they Struck. Zaria: 
Richard Clay Ltd.  
 Mbanefo, A.C. (1983). ‘A Psychological Analysis of the Nigerian Civil 
War: Future Implications for Unity and Union’, A Paper 
presented at the National Conference on Nigeria since 
Independence at Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria. 
Morgan, C. (2006). Analyzing Sustainable Development Issues in Africa. 
London: Marriot.  
Nnoli, O. (1980). Ethnic Politics in Nigeria. Enugu: Fourth Dimension 
Publishers. 
NYSC, Decree and Amendments. No. 28 Vol. 60, May 23rd, Part A, 1973 
and NYSC, A Compendium of the National Youth Service Corps 
Scheme: Ten Years of Service to the Nation (Lagos: NYSC 
Directorate, 1983). 
O. Ogunsanyo (2009).Awo: The Unfinished Greatness. Lagos: Pace Books 
and Periodicals.  
 Obiabor, M.M. (2016). Corruption and National Development in 
Nigeria. Umuahia: Ogun Printers Ltd. 
Ojukwu,E. O. (1989).Because I am Involved. Ibadan: Spectrum Books 
Ltd.  
Okoroafor, E.C., Nzenwa, B.N. and Ezeibe, I.P. (2016). ‘Implications of 
Effective National Integration for Sustainable Development in 
Nigeria’. Nigerian Journal for Strategic Research and 
Development, 1(40), 99-120. 
Onwere C., (1992). ‘National Youth Service Corps Programme and 
National Integration in Nigeria’, Unpublished PhD Thesis, 
Department of International and Comparative Education, 
University of London. 
Onyeakazi, J. and Okroafor, C. (2018). ‘National Integration in Nigeria: A 
Philosophical Insight’, International Journal of Novel 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                   B.J Audu and M. Hamza  
46 
 
Researchers in Humanities, Social Science and Management, 
1(1), 51-56.  
Usman, Y.B (2020). The Manipulation of Religion in Nigeria, 1977-1987. 
Zaria: Yusufu Bala Usman Institute, 15.  
Weiner, M. (1967). Political Culture and Political Development. 
Princeton: Princeton University Press.  
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Nigeria and National Integration in the Fourth Republic 
47 
 44 44    
    Nigeria and National Integration in the Fourth 
Republic 
 
 
Adeniji Olawale Abayomi 
 
 
Introduction 
Having sojourned in a political dreamland for more than hundred 
years, it is quite pathetic that Nigeria remains a "chronic bachelor" ever 
in search of a beautiful bride of integration. The problem of national 
unity has been raised at various times and in different contexts in 
relation to Nigeria. Sometimes this has been as an appeal,1interestingly, 
                                                           1Sam C. Nolutshungu, "Reflections on National Unity in South Africa: A 
Comparative Approach," Third World Quarterly 13, no. 4 (1992): 607-620, 
doi:10.1080/01436599208420300) 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                  A. O. Abayomi 
48 
the seemingly intractable quest for national integration is neither 
divine nor demonic, but rather a mismanagement of a political 
arrangement by potentially great peoples who are yet to get their acts 
right.  
Many countries of the world have empirically proven that 
multiethnicity, multiculturalism and multilingualism when properly 
harnessed can engender national integration and development.2 India, 
South Africa and Switzerland are cases in point. On the other hand, 
Somalia and Burundi, Rwanda are sadly demonstrated that 
homogeneous culture, religion and language is not a conclusive 
panacea for national integration and stability.3America, a largely 
monocultural and monolingual nation has since 1960s embraced 
multiculturalism because of its potential’s fig national development and 
progress. 
Nigeria is a classic case of a deeply divided society, because of its 
“multination” and “polyethnic” nature.4 This is due partly to the forced 
amalgamation,5 by the British colonialists, of the country’s 
                                                           2Olajide, Gbenga Julius, Odewumi A. olatunde, and Oladeji Akande Olusegun. 
‘Language and integration: The Imperative of Equal Right for Indigenous 
Languages in Nigeria” in Gbade, Ikuejube and Dolapo Zacchaeus Olupayimo. A 
Century of Nigeria’s Amalgamation, 1914-2014: Challenges of Integration, 
(Ibadan: John Archers Publishers Limited, 2015):16-28. 3Banjo, A.“A Language and Nation Building,” In Asein O. and Adesanoye, Language 
and Polity: Essay on Language and Society in Africa, ( Ibadan: Sam Bookman 
Educational Services, 1994):607-625. 4Iyanda, Kamoru Ahmed and Bello Sanusi Dantata, “Federalism and National 
Integration: The Nigerian Experience” Historical Research Letter 35, (2016): 8-12, 
www.iiste.org ISSN 2224-3178 55Politically, the Northern and Southern protectorate of Nigeria were brought 
together by British Colonial Governor, Fredrick Lugard in January 1914. The 
purpose for this by Braintain was for easy administration of the two protectorates, 
and to encourage internal trade throught the country. See Olupayimo, Dolapo 
Zacheus and Adeniji Olawale Abayomi, “Amalgamation Without Integration: 
Nigeria on the Alter of Religion Conviction” in Gbade, Ikuejube and Dolapo 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Nigeria and National Integration in the Fourth Republic 
49 
“ethnocultural nations” into single economic and political units that 
were called “colonies,” before it eventually evolved into what are 
today’s independent Nigeria. 
The present state of affairs in Nigeria however, in terms of integration 
have relation with was has happened in the past, and what is 
obtainable in this fourth republic are resemblance of what culminated 
into Nigerian Civil War,6 it’s even worrisome than it was in the past 
decades, and it seems Nigerian leaders have given up on the country, as 
they are less worried about the rate at which Nigeria is sliding into 
nothingness. Presently, there is nothing in Nigeria other than the hiatus 
between one general election and the coming one; the administration 
has been reduced to power grab and prebanal politics.7 Today, many of 
these ethno cultural groups want to secede and form their own 
independent polities in order to have more autonomy over policies that 
affect their well-being, including especially their cultural and 
traditional values.8 The struggle by these groups for either outright 
secession or so-called enhanced rights has created many challenges for 
governance, national integration and nation-building in Nigeria today. 
Throughout Nigeria today, inter-ethnic conflict, for example, over the 
allocation of scarce resources, mismanaged identity and cross-cultural 
communication has produced sectarian violence that has led to civil 
conflicts; and significantly endangered prospects for peaceful 
coexistence.9 
                                                                                                                                       
Zacchaeus Olupayimo. A Century of Nigeria’s Amalgamation, 1914-2014: 
Challenges of Integration, (Ibadan: John Archers Publishers Limited, 2015):128. 6Chukwuma CC Osakwe, “What Cause Nigerian Civil War”, Interview by the author 
in Kaduna, August 19, 2019. 7Omobola…punch 8Abubakar Adam Ibrahim, “Amotekun, Chinese Sparrows and The Rise Of Ethnic 
Militia” 
Daily Trust, Thu Jan 14, 2021. https://dailytrust.com/amotekun-chinese-sparrows-
and-the-rise-of-ethnic-militia 9Johnson Gyan, Interview by the author in Kaduna, February 18, 2019. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                  A. O. Abayomi 
50 
However, it is in recognition of its diversity, that the founding fathers of 
Nigeria had settled for a federal system of government.10The concern of 
this paper however, is not to engage in endless lamentation on 
elusiveness of integration in Nigeria, but rather see the quality of 
leadership and political mismanagement of the country as a threats to 
national integration in emerging democracies with specific focus on the 
democratic experiment of the Nigerian fourth republic. The paper 
contends that non-commitment to the ideals of federalism accounted 
for the inability of federalism (in practice) to integrate the different 
ethnic and religious groups in the country. The paper concludes that for 
federalism to perform the magic wand, political leaders must be 
committed to the tenets of federalism in address discrimination, 
intolerance, corruption and prejudice and cold-shoulder treatment of 
minority in the country. 
 
The Concept of National Integration 
The word national integration has plethora of definitions. There are 
perhaps as many definitions of the word as there are authors who have 
written on the subject especially as far as its usage in the Nigerian case 
is concerned. On its own, Integration is the satisfaction of the various 
components of a social polity with regard to justice, fair play, equitable 
distribution of resources and ability to access the accruing national 
opportunities.11It is defined by the Chambers Dictionary is a process of 
unification into a whole diverse element.12 
                                                           10Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe, Chief Obaferni Awolowo, Sir Ahmadu Bello and Abubakar 
Tafawa Balewa settled for a Federal system of government as a mechanism for 
coping with the deep ethnic and religious cleavages that exist in the country. Also 
see, Ahmed and Bello, “Federalism and National Integration”, 24 11  Ahmed Adam Okene. ‘National Security, Good Governance and Integration in 
Nigeria Since 1999’, Asian Social Science 7, No. 10 (October 2011):1-4 12Gbade, Ikuejube and Dolapo Zacchaeus Olupayimo. A Century of Nigeria’s 
Amalgamation, 1914-2014: Challenges of Integration, (Ibadan: John Archers 
Publishers Limited, 2015):38. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Nigeria and National Integration in the Fourth Republic 
51 
According to Ibrahim, national integration is a political idea and an 
ideal which implies a national state where citizens have the full right 
without any form of segregation. He opines further that, it is the 
bringing of people of different racial or ethnic groups into an 
unrestricted and equal association, as in society or an organization.13To 
J. Coleman and Bienen, integration is the progressive lessening of 
ethnic, cultural and regional tensions and discontinuities in the process 
of creating a homogenous political community.14 Leonard Binder 
conceptualizes integration from socio-psycho paradigm when he states 
that integration involves the creation of a high very level of mental and 
physical comprehensive.15 
In the same vein, integration could be applied separately and in group 
to either geo-polity like territory, nationality, or socio-psychological 
imperatives like value system, social behaviour and group category like 
elite and mass. In this realm therefore, integration could manifest 
among social beings living in a geo-political entity and should 
necessarily lead to trust, communal harmony, aggregation of material 
development and common constructive political objective(s). 
Generally speaking, therefore, integration is the feeling of the history of 
togetherness and high sense of community in all sectors. In a way 
integration is development in all ramifications of human and physical 
endeavours. The final objective of integration is that society is lived, 
guided, guarded and administered with tolerable minimum conflicts. 
                                                           13İbrahim Nassir, “The Crisis of National Integration and Tribes in Africa, 
Mankasam , May 7, 2017 https://www.ankasam.org/en/the-crisis-of-national-
integration-and-tribes-in-africa/#_ftn1 14  Coleman J.S. and Rosberg, C.G. (Eds), Political Parties and Integration in 
TropicalAfrica., (Los Angeles: University of California Press, 1964):Chapter1 & 2. 
Also see, Bienen, H., “The State and Ethnicity: Integrative Formula”, in State 
Versus Ethnic Claims: African Policy, Dilema. Olorunsola and D. Pothschild (Eds), 
(Colorado: Western Press, 1983):100-126. 15  Binder, L., “National Integration and Plural Development”, American Political 
Review 18, no. 3 (1964). 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                  A. O. Abayomi 
52 
With all been said, although, it has long been realised that 'developing' 
countries like Nigeria do not have to follow the example of 'developed' 
nations, the mere use of the terms 'national integration' or at times, 
'nation-building' implies a straight line of 'progress' from dispersed 
sub-national communities towards the integrated entity of the nation-
state.16  It is unquestionable that disintegration or falling apart is un-
desirable, and hence some kind of integration within (and maybe also 
across) societies is necessary.  
However, the notion of national integration in Nigeria has dwell more 
on eagerness of political leaders to exert effective control over the 
population in the absence of established institutions. For this emphasis, 
the notion of national integration in Nigeria-whatever the exact term 
used: -does not implies or at least connotes a national oneness, but 
rather a sentiment of loyalty to a central government or political actors. 
This goes against the rationale for the concept of integration which 
means -whether the adjective is there or not — a need to create a 
`territorial nationality which overshadows or eliminates subordinate 
parochial loyalties.17 
However, it has been suggested that the solution to this political 
quagmire is the creation of differentiated citizenship rights for each of 
these groups. The paper suggests that of the three types of 
differentiated citizenship that have been suggested as a way to 
accommodate diversity—self-government rights, polyethnic rights, and 
special representation rights—self-government rights pose the greatest 
threat to social, political, and economic stability of any country. The 
solution to this governance challenge may lie in inclusive and robust 
dialogue, which can help these groups find a way to remain citizens of 
                                                           16Sam C. Nolutshungu, "Reflections on National Unity in South Africa: A 
Comparative Approach," Third World Quarterly 13, no. 4 (1992): 607-620, 
doi:10.1080/01436599208420300) 17 Ronen, Dov. "Alternative Patterns of Integration in African States." The Journal of 
Modern African Studies 14, no. 4 (1976): 577-96. Accessed March 14, 2021. 
http://www.jstor.org/stable/160147. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Nigeria and National Integration in the Fourth Republic 
53 
their present polities, while at the same time, retaining their cultural 
identities. 
 
Looking to the Past 
Nigeria is a classic case of a deeply divided society, because of its 
“multination” and “polyethnic” nature.18 This is due partly to the forced 
amalgamation,19 by the British colonialists, of the country’s 
“ethnocultural nations” into single economic and political units that 
were called “colonies,” before it eventually evolved into what is today’s 
independent Nigeria. The problematic nature of this forceful marriage 
and its seeming unacceptability by the constituent groups began to 
manifest even before colonial rule came to an end,20 as exemplified by 
the character of the political parties formed within the period as well as 
the ideas encapsulated in the Northernisation policy.21 
                                                           18 Ahmed and Dantata, “Federalism and National Integration”, 8-12. 1919 Politically, the Northern and Southern protectorate of Nigeria were brought 
together by British Colonial Governor, Fredrick Lugard in January 1914. The 
purpose for this by Britain was for easy administration of the two protectorates, 
and to encourage internal trade throughout the country. See Olupayimo and 
Adeniji, “Amalgamation Without Integration”, 129. 20Before the independence in 1960, the colonial power succeeded in employing 
ethnicity as a core administrative strategy in the governance of Nigeria. This, 
however, triggered regional desires for political power such that by 1946, Britain 
again drew boundaries of Nigeria into three separate regions: North, West, and 
East. It was supposedly thought to strengthen and streamline her control while 
appeasing Nigerian demand for representation, rather it intensified the tensions 
of territorial division which existed within the Country today. The colonial 
authority left hoping that any sectional power dominance would be avoided by 
the evolution of national politics, but underestimated the effects of a regionalized 
structure of party in a country where political power was population depended. 
See, The Federal Republic of Nigeria, The Final Draft of the Conference Report”, 
The National Conference (August, 2014):2-3. Also, James O. Ojiako, Nigeria: 
Yesterday, Today, and…? (Onitsha: Africana Educational Publishers (Nig.) Ltd, 
1981):23. 21 Balogun M.J., Public administration in Nigeria, (London & Basingstoke: 
Macmillan Publishers, 1983). 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                  A. O. Abayomi 
54 
For instance, the formation of three major political parties which vied 
for control of the centre were inextricably linked with regions, religion 
and ethnic groups, they were not considered separately but as a whole 
Political Parties.22 For instance, the National Council for Nigeria and the 
Cameroons (NCNC) dominated the Eastern Region, under Dr. Nnamdi 
Azikwe; it comprises most Igbo ethnic group.23 The Action Group (AG) 
under Chief Obafemi Awolow24 was dominated by the Yoruba. And the 
Nigerian Peoples’ Congress (NPC) - comprised of the ethnic group 
Hausa-Fulani under the leadership of Sir Ahmadu Bello.25 
Another factor that set-in motion fragile nation was the national census 
conducted between 1962-1963.It showed that the Northern region had 
an even larger percentage of the nation’s population than had 
previously thought. The Igbos in the East and Yoruba in the West resent 
the elevated status of their neighbours to the north. In the same vein, 
the NCNC and the AG parties both also accused the NPC of fixing the 
1964 federal election, and the 1965 regional election which incited 
bloody riots. These cases set in motion political turmoil,26 with growing 
demand for self-determination by minority groups. 
A statement by a former presidential aspirant, Alhaji Maitama Sule, 
reflects the prevailing perceptions about cultural differences which 
militate against national unity, integration and nation building: 
Everyone has a gift from God. The Northerners are 
endowed by God with leadership qualities. The Yoruba 
man knows how to earn a living and has diplomatic 
qualities. The Igbo is gifted in commerce, trade and 
                                                           22OloredeSikiru, Interview by author, in Kaduna via mobile call, August 19, 2019, 
04:22. 23 Karen Russell. “The Nigerian Civil War”, p.2. 24 Karen Russell. p.2. 25 Karen Russell.  26 Ibid. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Nigeria and National Integration in the Fourth Republic 
55 
technological innovation. God so created us 
individually for a purpose and with different gifts.27 
It was, perhaps, based on the glaring incidents that have lingered from 
colonial time- suggestive of mutual suspicion, hatred, and disunity, one 
can say that Awolowo declaration in (1947) that Nigeria representing a 
mere geographical expression may not outrightly wrong.28 In spite of 
the festering suppurations, Nigeria retained her “united” status at 
independence.29 Yet, the Nigerian leaders that inherited power from 
the colonial masters not only failed to foster true unity among the 
constituent groups but also took actions that deepened the sense of 
disunity within the polity.  
Thus, signs that things were falling apart began to manifest quite early 
when the country started witnessing agitations for separation within 
the first decade of her independence. While all being said, the 
overwhelming role of colonialism shaped the character of the Nigeria 
State and the nature of its politics, it evidently affected the actions of 
the political leadership and by extension the quality of democratic 
governance during the first republic. The politicisation of ethnicity and 
religion, prevalence of political corruption and kleptocracy, coupled 
with the alienated, unaccountable and violent tendencies of the 
Nigerian state can be understood within this context.30 
 
 
                                                           27 Rosalind I.J. Hackett, “Conflict in the Classroom: Educational Institutions as Sites 
of Religious Tolerance Intolerance in Nigeria”, BYU L. Rev. 537 (1999). 
https://digitalcommons.law.byu.edu/lawreview/vol1999/iss2/3 28 Obafemi Awolowo, Path to Nigeria’s Freedom, (London: Faber and Faber, 1947): 
47 – 48. 29 James O. Ojiako, Nigeria: Yesterday, Today, and…? (Onitsha: Africana 
Educational Publishers (Nig.) Ltd, 1981):9. 30Egwu, S.G., “Ethnic and religious violence in Nigeria”, (Jos: African centre for 
democratic governance (AFRIGOV), 2001). 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                  A. O. Abayomi 
56 
The first republic politicians preoccupied with ‘ethno-regional politics’ 
consciously mobilised ethnicity and religion as the means to acquire 
and consolidate political leadership and economic.31It is with these 
internal contradictions of a multi-ethnic, multi-religious and multi-
linguistic state of Nigeria that led to the unfortunate civil war of 1967 – 
1970.32 
Nevertheless, this historical episode was occasioned by mutual 
suspicion and distrust amongst the political leaders that were saddled 
with the leadership of the country after independence in 1960.Even 
with all efforts of National Youth Service Corps, actualising total 
integration is still difficult from them till now. 
 
Continuity and Change in the Fourth Republic 
As emphasised earlier, the trend has subsequently assumed frightening 
dimensions since then, with alarming security implications for the 
country and democratic governance devoid of what Egwu describes as 
the key elements of governance: accountability, transparency, 
openness, answerability, enforcement and responsiveness. 
Consequently, political corruption, perversion of the rule of law and 
due process, subversion of the institutions of accountability and 
transparency, reckless and rudderless political leadership, violation of 
human rights, authoritarianism, criminalisation of dissent, widespread 
impunity and personalisation of political power have become 
significant attributes of democratic governance, especially in the fourth 
                                                           31Setolu, D., “The Nigerian state, the political class and histography of elections in 
Nigeria”, In Elections and Democratic Consolidation in Nigeria, G. Onu and A. 
Momoh (eds), (Lagos: Triad Associates,2007): 34 –S42 32 Abubakar A. Atofarati. “The Nigerian Civil War, Causes, Strategies, And Lessons 
Learnt”, Africa Master Web. 
(1992),www.africamasterweb.com/BiafranWarCauses. Accessed 20 May, 2018. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Nigeria and National Integration in the Fourth Republic 
57 
republic.33 These governance deficits have profoundly affected 
development, unity and security in the fourth republic in Nigeria.34 
The struggle to acquire and access power usually takes dangerous and 
deadly dimensions among the ruling elites in Nigeria. This is attributed 
to the dominant role of the state in socio-economic development which 
invariably is core to the existence and wealth of the ruling elites.35 
Therefore, the demands the elites make upon the political system as 
well as the subsequent processes of policy formulation and 
implementation is overwhelmed by intra-elites’ contradictions and 
conflicts. The fourth republic is replete with cases of elite conflicts 
manifested in intra and inter-party squabbles, animosity and tensions 
between some governors and their deputies, and political godsons and 
godfathers which often snow ball into high level violence.36  
More often than not, identity politics are mobilized and deployed in the 
zero-sum contests. The storm surrounding the zoning arrangement 
among political parties is a notable case in this regard. Consequently, 
public policies are given ethno-religious and communal colourations; 
provoking mutual distrust among the people, heightened sense of 
political marginalization, violence and instability of the polity.37The 
monopolisation of the public policy formulation and implementation 
processes by the ruling elites, the fractious elite brinkmanship that 
precedes the making of public policy and the deployment of public 
                                                           33Egwu, S. G., “Promoting the social contract through the due process mechanism: 
the role of the legislature”, A lecture delivered at the Kogi State House of 
Assembly (Lokoja, May 18, 2016) 34  Monday Aliu and S.MOmodia, “Governance and Threats to National Security in 
Emerging Democracies: A Focus on the Nigerian Fourth Republic”, Research on 
Humanities and Social Sciences  3, no.4, (2013): 36. 35Jega, A.M., Democracy, good governance and development in Nigeria, (Ibadan: 
Spectrum Books Limited, 2007) 36 Njoku, F.O.C., ‘Development, Conflict and Peace in Nigeria”, in Peace Studies 
and Conflict Resolution in Nigeria: A reader, M. Ikejiani-Clark (ed) (Ibadan: 
Spectrum Books Limited, 2009). 37 Jega, Democracy, 19. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                  A. O. Abayomi 
58 
policy to promote group interests creates an elite-mass divide with dire 
implications for national security. It is within this context that the 
worsening social tensions, economic inequality, poverty and increased 
spate of insecurity in the country since the return of democracy in 1999 
is better appreciated. 
Insecurity in this present dispensation, whether internal or external, 
with terrorism usually has political undertones, at times, its shows 
other ancillary motives such as religion, economic or social. To some 
extent it may confuse someone in identifying what the terrorists are 
fighting for. Before 2009, issue of terrorism was unknown, what we are 
familiar with is the existence of militant groups38 agitating for 
improvement of environment degradation, unemployment, poverty 
and marginalisation.39The incessant killing by Boko Haram under 
Goodluck Jonathan became sources of contention,40 there are agitation 
that it was northern agenda to crumble Jonathan regime, while himself 
did little or nothing to effectively curtail the activities of the sect. 
Farmer-herders conflict complicated the issues under Muhammadu 
Buhari. Likewise, River state governor (Nyesom Wike) has also 
threatened that Nigeria will be buried if Benue state Governor Samuel 
                                                           38They cut across Go-political zone of Nigeria. Niger Delta militant Group, 
Movement for the Survival of Ogoni People (MOSOP); Movement for 
Emancipation of the Niger Delta; Niger Delta People’s Volunteer Force, Egbesu 
Boys and Niger Delta Vigilante; Bakkasi Boys; Bakkasi Movement for the 
Actualization of the Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB); Odua People’s Congress 
(OPC) and Arewa People’s Congress (APC). 39I.O Albert, “African international terrorism”, in Perspectives on Peace and 
Conflict in Africa Albert, I.O Albert (ed.), (Ibadan, John Archers Publishers,2005) 40Buhari said: “...Any attack on the Boko Haram is an attack on the North” and El-
Rufai comment on insecurity in Nigeria. See, Okupe, “Buhari said any attack on the 
Boko Haram is an attack on the North”, Channels Television, (December 15,2014), 
Video:5:22. Also, “Buhari faults clampdown on Boko Haram members”, The Nation 
(2013). 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Nigeria and National Integration in the Fourth Republic 
59 
Ortom is assassinated.41This and many others are affecting social 
construct of Nigeria today. 
Stories of abductions for ransom, and incessant killing in the southern 
part of the country by herders have become another episode of 
Nigeria’s socio-problems.42Activities of Fulani Militia which became 
more even deadly, after implementation of anti-open grazing laws in 
some states in Nigeria43has called for concerned, as communique 
between herdsmen, undertheir umbrella body, Miyetti Allah, and other 
social cultural groups have threatened anarchy within the state. 
The South-West governors put politics aside and floated a 
revolutionary regional security network, codenamed Operation 
Amotekun, an arrangement that they said mirrors a “true federal 
structure”. The genius is that the South-West governors could no longer 
fold their hands and wait forever on the long-awaited restructure of the 
country nor continue to rely on an inept federal police before securing 
the lives44 and property of their people.45 
                                                           41 Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue state was attacked on Saturday 20 March, 
2021 by suspected herdsmen while visiting a farm in Makurdi. See ‘Nigeria will be 
buried if Ortom is assassinated’, Channel Television March 20, 2021. Accessed 
March, 20, 2021 42Killing of Afenifere’s Daughter by suspected Fulani,  43  Terrorism Global Terrorism Index, “2020: The ten countries most impacted by 
terrorism” (2020), Accessed March 10, 2021,  www.vissionofhumanity.org. 44 The former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, OluFalae, was 
in 2015 kidnapped in Akure by seven Fulani men. Although the kidnappers were 
later arrested, a ransom of N5 million was paid for his release. In June 2019, the 
daughter of the leader of the Yoruba socio-cultural group, Afenifere, Reuben 
Fasoranti, was killed by suspected herdsmen along Ore road. Also, Olufunke 
Olakurin was shot while on her way to Lagos by masked hoodlums after a visit to 
her father in Akure. Of recent, a popular herbal manufacturer, FataiYusuff, 
popularly called ‘OkoOloyun’ was shot dead in Oyo State. See, Iroanusi, 
‘Amotekun, op. cit 45 Queen Esther Iroanusi, “Amotekun:Don’t  back down, Nigerians tell South-west 
governors”, Premium Times, January 26, 2020, accessed February 22, 2021, 
www.premiumtimes.com.ng 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                  A. O. Abayomi 
60 
With an updated knowledge of the current state of affairs in Nigeria, 
one will truly understand that the issue of religious intolerance has 
worsened since the past few years. Some of the actions that display the 
height of this religious intolerance in Nigeria often occur under the 
guise of political sectarianism.46 
The agitations for the implementations of Sharia law and Islamic 
banking system in the country by some individuals and groups like 
Boko Haram are seen as a clear manifestation of religious intolerance. 
the seed sowed by these alien religions to Nigerian political system is 
seriously overheated with religious conflicts. For instance, in 2000, the 
move for the implementation of the Shariah Law led to a bloody clash 
between Christians and Muslims. In 2002, the protest against the 
hosting of the world beauty contest in Nigeria led to another bloody 
clash between Muslims and Christians in Kaduna. In 2004, there was 
another clash between Christians and Muslims in Makarfi Local 
Government over an alleged case of the desecration of the Qur’an.  
The bitter experiences we have to grapple with concern the extension 
of religious conflicts to the institutions of learning. In 2002, the election 
of the student union president of the Federal College of Education 
(F.C.E) Zaria led to a clash between Christian and Muslim students. In 
the same year, a similar clash was averted in Ahmadu Bello University 
(A.B.U) Zaria. On 17th March 2006), there was another squabble 
between Muslim and Christian Girls by the water tank in the female 
hostel in A.B.U.47 
 
                                                           46  Officially, Nigeria is a secular state with freedom of religion guaranteed in the 
Nigerian Constitution. See Nig. Const. (1979) Ch. I & 10; Nig. Const. (Promulgation 
Decree of 1989) No. 12. Section 11 of the latter states, “The Government of the 
Federation or of a State shall not adopt any religion as State Religion.”  47 Ushe Mike Ushe, “Religious Conflicts and Education in Nigeria: Implications for 
National Security,” Journal of Education and Practice 6, no.2, (2015):117. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Nigeria and National Integration in the Fourth Republic 
61 
In the same vein, there are frustrations with the Northerners-
dominated government that is believed to be enabling Fulani atrocities. 
Though, while the various governments have employed differing quota 
strategies to try to reflect a “federal character,” Nigerians have every 
reason to be doubtful of the concept of fair play, with nepotism and 
corruption rife at every level of Nigerian life. This becomes more 
intense as each of the two dominant religions in Nigeria (Islam and 
Christianity) tries to control government activities or to shape activities 
of government following the tenets of her religion.  
The question now is whether he is a Muslim or Christian President, 
Minister, Governor or even Local Government chairman, nevertheless, 
the consequent abuse of human rights following these religious 
conflicts cannot go unnoticed. Such rights as freedom of speech, life, 
association, religion and movement are no longer observed.48In the face 
of political instability following these conflicts southern (Christians) no 
longer settle in the northern (Muslim) Nigeria for fear of loss of lives 
and property and vice versa.49 
With all these, Nigeria is being threatened with disintegration day by 
day. Policies are carried by emotional sentiments rooted in ethnicity or 
religion cleavages. The educated, religious and political elites (class) 
prey upon the masses and use them as satellite to achieve their socio-
political and economic objectives. This is done through orientation, 
indoctrination or violence using the masses on the already conceived 
stereotypes against their political and religious opponents. Right from 
formation of political parties to campaign processes and voting 
patterns, all tend towards religious affiliations and tribalism. As a 
result, politics in Nigeria is associated with violence and lack of 
accommodation. Thus, ethno-religious conflicts have chartered the 
routine of political process in Nigeria. 
                                                           48 Olupayimo and Olawale, p.145 49Samuel Ungowm and Marcus Musa in Kaduna, “Why Dichotomy in Kaduna”, 
Interview by the author, March 12, 2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                  A. O. Abayomi 
62 
Another factor that even worsened the issue is the level of conflict in 
the classroom. Presently, it might be expected that education would be 
a contentious issue in terms of its provision, control, form, and content. 
I am concerned in this Article with the ways in which educational 
institution—whether primary, secondary, or tertiary—have been 
connected to the growth of religious conflict in Nigeria over the last 
two decades. How might Nigerian schools and institutions of higher 
learning constitute sites for generating or countering religious 
intolerance? 
There have been a number of incidents of religiously-linked violence 
involving Nigerian students since the 1980s50.  also, there are strong 
falsification of academic records along ethnic/religion lines in 
correlation with increased educational attainment and the effects 
appear to persist for many generations, without effectively contributing 
to national integration.51 There are falsifications of result by lecturers, 
management on religious and ethnic basis.52Latest is the controversy 
over hijab in Christian Missionary schools, which has designated most 
of the South-West into epic centres of religious conflict,53 though 
government decision to allow wearing of hijab in public schools is for 
                                                           50Rosalind I.J. Hackett, “Conflict in the Classroom: Educational Institutions as Sites 
of Religious Tolerance intolerance in Nigeria”Law Review Volume  1999, no. 2 
(199):53-56  51  “Religion and Education Around the World: How Religion May Affect 
Educational Attainment: Scholarly Theories and Historical Background”, Religion & 
Public Life, “DECEMBER 13, 2016”, accessed March 17, 2021,  
https://www.pewforum.org/2016/12/13/how-religion-may-affect-educational-
attainment-scholarly-theories-and-historical-background/ 52 Interview with students Elijah Oluwatobi, interview by the author (March 13, 
2021), Audio:02:13. “Yoruba teacher didn’t believe that Hausa students could do 
something remarkable in classroom; Northern/Muslim teacher tends to alter 
result in favour of students of the same descent, placing their colleagues of 
southern descent under them. 53There is Hijab crises in Osun State in 2016, Kwara State in 2021, see, 
GbnegaOlarinoye, “Hijab Crisis: How Osun Schools turned religious war theaters”, 
Vanguard (2016), www.vanguardngr.com. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Nigeria and National Integration in the Fourth Republic 
63 
sustainable peace and communal harmony anchored on mutual respect 
and understanding. CAN however maintains that their schools have 
historical foundation, philosophy that did not Christianise any Muslims 
students, so far school uniform is internationally accepted for 
identification of student from particular schools. To Abidoye, he 
disagreed with the government’s decision to allow Muslim students to 
wear Hijab in Christian schools. He asserted that wearing of Hijab is 
nothing but deepen and dividing the classroom and making it a 
religious centre.54 
Though, efforts to utilize educational resources to achieve religious 
harmony and national unity exist. Educational institutions have become 
microcosmic versions of more macrocosmic socio-political trends. 
Furthermore, such institutions constitute important breeding grounds 
for religious ideas and movements.55 My analyses of these examples 
lead me to conclude that the Nigerian system which encourages a 
confessional approach to religious instruction in the schools has 
contributed to the further polarization of Nigerian society along 
religious lines.56 The system also leads to probable violations of the 
principles of religious freedom embodied in the U.N. Declaration on the 
Elimination of All Forms of Intolerance and of Discrimination Based on 
Religion or Belief (1981). 57 
In addition to this, is the Boko-Haram insurgency, an Arabic phrase 
which literally means that “western education is forbidden”, is among 
other factors, largely rooted in religious intolerance. The challenges 
posed by this group since 2010 have defied all logic and rationality, 
leaving Nigerians with deep concerns for the unity of their country in 
the present era. The question that quickly comes to mind is Why has 
religion, albeit a formidable unifying element, become an instrument of 
                                                           54 AbidoyeJohn,”Solution to Christian/Muslim Crisis in Ilorin”, interview by the 
author (March 10, 2021) Audio:04:11. 55Hackett, “Conflict in the Classroom,” 57. 56 57  U.N. GAOR, 36th Session, pt. 1s, at 332, U. N. Doc. G A/654 6 (19 81) 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                  A. O. Abayomi 
64 
various kinds of menace, destruction of lives and properties? It appears 
to have even caused many to wonder about the quality of education 
and expertise of the Nigerian polity and governance. Though, Boko 
Haram is not an offshoot of the immediate past administration and 
present one neither was these administrations that mastermind the 
insurgency. It existed before the Jonathan assumed power in May 2011 
and Buhari in May 2015.  
Persistent religious conflicts alongside the problem of insecurity – 
though not a new development, but it has worsened since the last ten 
years. Religion has been awfully misrepresented and used as an excuse 
for all kinds of evil.58 The fundamental failures of the Nigerian 
governments have been among the most important drivers of the 
religious radicalism that has metastasized throughout the country since 
the 1980s. Countering violent extremism will require addressing the 
root causes, the majority of which lack readily available military 
solutions. Manoeuvring the levers of a deeply troubled bureaucracy to 
accomplish those ends promises to be the most difficult component in 
the fight against militancy.59 
Apart from that is mismanaged diversity in the fourth republic, the 
regimes allowed disappearing old ethnic and religious fault lines to 
reopen in greater fissures with drums of bitterness, separation and 
disintegration.60 Former President Olusegun Obasanjo has expressed 
that he was embarrassed about how President Buhari is running the 
country, insisting that Africa’s most populous black nation is moving 
towards becoming a failed State. Obasanjo is apparently not alone. 
                                                           58 Peter O. Chineke, “The Place of Religion in Education: A Contemporary Nigerian 
Perspective,” Cultural and Religious Studies 4, no. 3 (March 2016):204-213, doi: 
10.17265/2328-2177/2016.03.006. 59 B., Matthew “Nigerias’ Critical Juncture: Boko Haram, Buhari, and the Future of 
the Fourth Republic.” Small Wars Journal 1, no. 1 (2005):6. 60Intensification of the IPOB calls for division, and the emergency of Odua Republic 
for Yoruba nation. Both Biafra and Odua Republic has been included in United 
Nation Unrepresented Nations in October, 2020. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Nigeria and National Integration in the Fourth Republic 
65 
Wole Soyinka, poet, essayist and first African Nobel prize winner, 
concurred with the former President’s assessment, describing the 
country as a crumbling edifice on the edge of collapse. According to 
another elder statesman, the former governor of Kaduna State, Alhaji 
Balarabe Musa, referring to attacks across the country by bandits and 
criminal herdsmen, the failure is because ‘no serious and patriotic 
government will allow this level of killings of its citizens by terrorists 
and be watching aimlessly’. A prominent Islamic scholar, Sheik Murtala 
Sokoto, described those still praising Buhari as liars and hypocrites. 
 
Implication for National Development  
Despite all social and economic policies that have been implemented by 
successive administrations in the fourth republic, Nigeria has remained 
a laggard in social, economic and political integration, North and 
Southwest had boycott goods from their respective regions, drum of 
war and political threat are waged. Subsequently, political instability, 
abject poverty, acute youth unemployment, heightened crime rate, 
poor health prospects, widespread malnourishment has been the main 
features of Nigeria’s political economy.61  With all these being Said, the 
failure of governance is core to the socio-economic and political 
development challenges confronting Nigeria and the spate of violence 
that threatens national integration.  
One of the greatest experiments in national integration is still 
underway through activities of NYSC. Certain progress has been made, 
but much remains to be done. The struggle for national integration in 
the huge and underdeveloped Nigeria is very difficult, with ethnic, 
religion and geographical factors weighing heavily.  
Today, some ethnocultural groups want to secede and form their own 
independent polities in order to have more autonomy over policies that 
                                                           61 Moses M. Adagbabiri and Ugo ChuksOkolie, “Corruption and the Challenges of 
Insecurity in Nigeria’s Fourth Republic” Journal of Political Science and Leadership 
Research 4, no. 3, (2018):41.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                  A. O. Abayomi 
66 
affect their well-being, including especially their cultural and 
traditional values. The struggle by these groups for either outright 
secession or so-called enhanced rights has created many challenges for 
governance, national integration and nation-building in Nigeria today. 
Throughout Nigeria today, inter-ethnic conflict, for example, over the 
allocation of scarce resources, has produced sectarian violence that has 
led conflicts; and significantly endangered prospects for peaceful 
coexistence. 
It has been suggested that the solution to this political quagmire is the 
creation of differentiated citizenship rights for each of these groups. 
The paper suggests that of the three types of differentiated citizenship 
that have been suggested as a way to accommodate diversity—self-
government rights, polyethnic rights, and special representation 
rights—self-government rights pose the greatest threat to social, 
political, and economic stability in the country. The solution to this 
governance challenge may lie in inclusive and robust dialogue, which 
can help these groups find a way to remain citizens of their present 
polities, while at the same time, retaining their cultural identities.62  
 
War Forward 
Different attempts to prevent disintegration and to ensure peace and 
security had been taken in the past ranging from general appeal, the 
use of the force, establishment of commission of inquiry to investigate 
remote and immediate causes of crisis, and so on. These attempts have 
not really been yielding positive impact. Though, it has been suggested 
that the solution to this political quagmire is the creation of 
differentiated citizenship rights for each of these groups. The paper 
suggests that of the three types of differentiated citizenship that have 
been suggested as a way to accommodate diversity—self-government 
rights, polyethnic rights, and special representation rights. Self-
                                                           62 Noah Tanko, Balogun O. Josephine and Sambo David Ringnan, for Integration in 
Nigeria's Multilingual Context  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Nigeria and National Integration in the Fourth Republic 
67 
government rights pose the greatest threat to social, political, and 
economic stability of any country.  
The solution to this governance challenge may lie in inclusive and 
robust dialogue, which can help these groups find a way to remain 
citizens of their present polities, while at the same time, retaining their 
cultural identities. Whatever political solution is arrived at; it must be 
based on the principle of universal citizenship. In a diverse multi-ethnic 
and multilingual country like Nigeria, to encourage integration, the 
political class and policy makers need to understand the cultural 
significance and sensibility of the people to their ethnic and religion 
inclination. A policy of linguistic pluralism promotes national 
integration, which is one facet of national development. Therefore, 
investment in the language of a people, often very close to their hearts 
is investment in national and human resources in any nation and it 
makes national mobilisation easier. It also makes it possible for citizens 
to be able to make maximum contribution to the building of a nation 
One may wager with good assurance, on the basis of what has 
happened everywhere else in Africa and virtually all the world, that in 
the new political order, whatever specific character that may have in 
terms of political rights and popular participation, all the people who 
live within Nigeria boundaries, except temporary sojourners from 
other countries, will not only become citizens but will be declared  'a 
people', 'the people', and, before long. 'a nation'. 
Also, in a bid to proffer any possible way forward for the contemporary 
Nigerian situation, there is a need to incorporate ‘history’ into the 
nation’s educational system. Disintegration started because 
government did not see the role of ‘History’ in Nation-Building. And to 
correct the menace of disintegration, individual Nigerians, family and 
the society should promote the study of history at home, work and in 
all gathering for national development and integration of the country.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                  A. O. Abayomi 
68 
History is essential characteristic of any society; it is fundamental to 
understanding ourselves and others. It promotes the understanding of 
societies, events, movements and developments that have shaped 
humanity from earliest times. The Federal Government should promote 
the study of history at all levels of education, its teaching is essential in 
Nigeria schools, for moral reorientation and critical thinking of the 
youth. It is time to go beyond present approach of use of jingle, rallies 
and propagandas for socio-reconstruction, transformation project for 
national integration by taking a trip to the past in order to improve the 
understanding of the present, with a view to gaining insights into the 
future, to prepare for its many challenges. The study of History in 
school becomes inevitable if the country intends to wield together the 
ethnic cracks in our society. 
Finally, I will be borrowed from the word of Jhon Garang, who is the 
founder of the Sudan People’s Liberation Movement, he had shared at a 
conference that, ‘Islam can’t unite us, Christianity can’t unite us, 
Arabism can’t unite us, Africanism can’t unite us’, just (History) 
Nigerianism can unite us. 
 
Conclusion 
So far, it has been established and underscored the fact that 
development and utilisation of various persons (Christian or Muslim, 
Hausa or Igbo, Efik or Yoruba) is a critical factor in fostering integration 
in Nigeria. To ignore or underplay this factor is to display height of 
unseriousness in our quest for integration. This study also brought to 
the fore preferential and discriminatory character of the current 
government policy with its attendants’ unsavoury implications for 
integration. 
 Unity in diversity of this country should be a blessing and not a curse. 
As an English and Yoruba proverb say respectively: "The more the 
merrier", and "the sky is wide enough for all the birds to fly without 
disturbing one another". Hence, it is what we do with these diversities 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Nigeria and National Integration in the Fourth Republic 
69 
that matters. More than hundred years of amalgamation and sixty years 
of independence, Nigeria ought to have moved beyond concentrating 
developmental efforts on just few ethnic groups, religion and individual 
for integration sake.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                  A. O. Abayomi 
70 
 
Bibliography 
 
“Buhari faults clampdown on Boko Haram members”, The Nation 
(2013). 
“Religion and Education Around the World: How Religion May Affect 
Educational Attainment: Scholarly Theories and Historical 
Background”, Religion & Public Life, “DECEMBER 13, 2016”, 
accessed March 17, 2021,  
Abubakar A. Atofarati. “The Nigerian Civil War, Causes, Strategies, And 
Lessons Learnt”. Africa Master Web. 
(1992),www.africamasterweb.com/BiafranWarCauses. 
Accessed 20 May, 2018. 
Adagbabiri, Moses M. and Ugo ChuksOkolie. “Corruption and the 
Challenges of Insecurity in Nigeria’s Fourth Republic.” Journal 
of Political Science and Leadership Research 4, no. 3, (2018). 
Ahmed and Dantata, “Federalism and National Integration” 
Ahmed, IyandaKamoru and Bello Sanusi Dantata, “Federalism and 
National Integration: The Nigerian Experience.” Historical 
Research Letter 35, (2016). www.iiste.org. 
Aliu, Monday and S.MOmodia. “Governance and Threats to National 
Security in Emerging Democracies: A Focus on the Nigerian 
Fourth Republic.” Research on Humanities and Social Sciences 
3, no.4, (2013). 
Balogun M.J., Public administration in Nigeria, (London & Basingstoke: 
Macmillan Publishers, 1983). 
Banjo, A.“A. Language and Nation Building,” In Asein O. and Adesanoye, 
Language and Polity: Essay on Language and Society in Africa, ( 
Ibadan: Sam Bookman Educational Services, 1994) 
Bienen, H. “The State and Ethnicity: Integrative Formula”. in State 
Versus Ethnic Claims: African Policy, Dilemma. Olorunsola and 
D. Pothschild, eds. (Colorado: Western Press, 1983):100-126. 
Binder, L.. “National Integration and Plural Development.” American 
Political Review 18, no. 3 (1964). 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Nigeria and National Integration in the Fourth Republic 
71 
Coleman J.S. and Rosberg, C.G., eds. Political Parties and Integration in 
Tropical Africa. (Los Angeles: University of California Press, 
1964)  
Daily Trust, Thu Jan 14, 2021. https://dailytrust.com/amotekun-
chinese-sparrows-and-the-rise-of-ethnic-militia 
Egwu, S. G. “Promoting the social contract through the due process 
mechanism: the role of the legislature” (Lokoja, May 18, 2016). 
Egwu, S.G., “Ethnic and religious violence in Nigeria”. African centre for 
democratic governance (AFRIGOV), (2001). 
Gbade, Ikuejube and Dolapo Zacchaeus Olupayimo, eds.  A Century of 
Nigeria’s Amalgamation, 1914-2014: Challenges of Integration, 
(Ibadan: John Archers Publishers Limited, 2015) 
Gbnega, Olarinoye. “Hijab Crisis: How Osun Schools turned religious 
war theaters.” Vanguard (2016). www.vanguardngr.com. 
https://www.pewforum.org/2016/12/13/how-religion-may-affect-
educational-attainment-scholarly-theories-and-historical-
background/ 
I.O Albert, “African international terrorism”, in Perspectives on Peace 
and Conflict in Africa Albert, I.O Albert (ed.), (Ibadan, John 
Archers Publishers,2005) 
İbrahim Nassir. “The Crisis of National Integration and Tribes in Africa. 
Mankasam (May 7, 2017). https://www.ankasam.org/en/the-
crisis-of-national-integration-and-tribes-in-africa/#_ftn1 
Ibrahim, Abubakar Adam . “Amotekun, Chinese Sparrows and The Rise 
of Ethnic Militia.” Daily Trust (December 20,2020). 
Jega, A.M. Democracy, good governance and development in Nigeria. 
(Ibadan: Spectrum Books Limited, 2007). 
Lobban, Richard. "National Integration and Disintegration: the 
southern Sudan." in “Three Studies on National Integration in 
the Arab World," Association of Arab-American University 
Graduates, Information papers, No. 12, March 2012). 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                  A. O. Abayomi 
72 
 
MatthewB.. “Nigeria’s’ Critical Juncture: Boko Haram, Buhari, and the 
Future of the Fourth Republic.” Small Wars Journal 1, no. 1 
(2005). 
Njoku, F.O.C. ‘Development, Conflict and Peace in Nigeria”, in Peace 
Studies and Conflict Resolution in Nigeria: A reader, edited by 
M. Ikejiani-Clark, Ibadan: Spectrum Books Limited, 2009. 
Nyesom Wike. ‘Nigeria will be buried if Ortom is assassinated.’ Channel 
Television (March 20, 2021).  
Obafemi, Awolowo. Path to Nigeria’s Freedom, 47 – 48. London: Faber 
and Faber, 1947. 
Ojiako James O. Nigeria: Yesterday, Today, and…? (Onitsha: Africana 
Educational Publishers (Nig.) Ltd, 1981). 
Okene, Ahmed Adam. ‘National Security, Good Governance and 
Integration in Nigeria Since 1999.’ Asian Social Science 7, No. 10 
(October 2011). 
Okupe. “Buhari said any attack on the Boko Haram is an attack on the 
North”, Channels Television, (December 15,2014), Video:5:22.  
Olajide, Gbenga Julius, Odewumi A. olatunde, and Oladeji Akande 
Olusegun. ‘Language and integration: The Imperative of Equal 
Right for Indigenous Languages in Nigeria” in .A Century of 
Nigeria’s Amalgamation, 1914-2014: Challenges of Integration. 
Edited by Gbade, Ikuejube and Dolapo Zacchaeus Olupayimo, 
16-28. Ibadan: John Archers Publishers Limited, 2015. 
Peter, O. Chineke, “The Place of Religion in Education: A Contemporary 
Nigerian Perspective,” Cultural and Religious Studies 4, no. 3 
(March 2016):204-213. 
Queen, Esther Iroanusi. “Amotekun:Don’t  back down, Nigerians tell 
South-west governors.” Premium Times, January 26, 2020. 
Accessed February 22, 2021, www.premiumtimes.com.ng 
Ronen, Dov. "Alternative Patterns of Integration in African States." The 
Journal of Modern African Studies 14, no. 4 (1976): 577-96. 
Accessed March 14, 2021. 
http://www.jstor.org/stable/160147. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Nigeria and National Integration in the Fourth Republic 
73 
Rosalind, I.J. Hackett. “Conflict in the Classroom: Educational 
Institutions as Sites of Religious Tolerance intolerance in 
Nigeria.”Law Review Volume 1999, no. 2 (1999):53-56. 
Sam, C. Nolutshungu. "Reflections on National Unity in South Africa: A 
Comparative Approach." Third World Quarterly 13, no. 4 
(1992): 607-620.  doi:10.1080/01436599208420300) 
Setolu, D., “The Nigerian state, the political class and histography of 
elections in Nigeria”, In Elections and Democratic Consolidation 
in Nigeria. Edited byG. Onu and A. Momoh,34-42. Lagos: Triad 
Associates,2007. 
Terrorism Global Terrorism Index, “2020: The ten countries most 
impacted by terrorism” (2020), Accessed March 10, 2021,  
www.vissionofhumanity.org. 
The Federal Republic of Nigeria, “The Final Draft of the Conference 
Report”, The National Conference(August, 2014). 
Ushe, Ushe Mike. “Religious Conflicts and Education in Nigeria: 
Implications for National Security.” Journal of Education and 
Practice 6, no.2, (2015):117. 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                 S. A. Wada 
74 
 
    55 55    
    The Establishment of National Youth Service Corp 
(NYSC) and Its Impact on National Integration 
 
 
Safiya Abu Wada 
 
 
Introduction 
National Integration, nation building, national cohesion, national unity, 
national loyalty, dominated the policy agenda of many post-colonial 
states in Africa.1  Nigeria like most of these post-colonial African states 
have been concerned with the achievement of national integration to 
blur the lines of diversity in an effort to unite the country in the spirit of 
                                                           1Onifade Comfort Adenike and Imhonopi David, “Towards National Integration in 
Nigeria: Jumping the Hurdles”, Research in Humanities and Social Science, Vol.3, 
No.9, 2013, 75. ISSN 2222-1719. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Establishment of National Youth Service Corp (NYSC) and… 
75 
 
nationalism and patriotism. This is because the colonial creation of 
states led to co-existence of ethnic groups who prior were independent 
nation-states.   
With the independence of the country from the British who brought 
these nations-states together for their own administrative 
convenience,2 a host of challenges were inherited that made them 
unable to coexist peacefully. Consequently, this cumulatively resulted 
to the civil war that was experienced in the country in 1967-1970. The 
military government during this period in the series of effort to ensure 
that these lines of divide are blurred and create a sense of national 
loyalty to the Nigerian state, embarked on a rehabilitation, 
reconstruction and re-integration program to promote national 
integration among the various ethnic groups. These resulted policies to 
create Unity Schools across the country, National Youth Service Corps 
(NYSC), State creation, imposing of quota system, Land tenure Act 
among others.3 
This is because the lack of integration has hampered government 
efforts at achieving efficient productive sectors, limited the impact of 
governments economic programmes, threatened food security, 
complexified social insecurity, deepened the deterioration of physical 
and social infrastructure, distressed the living standards of a vast 
majority of Nigerians and their exclusion from political and economic 
space among others. This chapter therefore looks at the establishment 
of the National Youth Service Corps and to what extent it has been able 
to achieve or foster national integration in Nigeria since its 
establishment.  
 
                                                           2 Daniel RisiagbonOgbeide, “Evaluation of Public policies: The Case of National 
Youth service Corp in Nigeria”, Journal of political science and leadership Research, 
Vol.3, No.3, 2017, 18-19. 3Onifade Comfort Adenike and Imhonopi David, “Towards National Integration in 
Nigeria…, 77-78 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                 S. A. Wada 
76 
 
Conceptual Clarification  
The term national integration is used synonymously with national 
unity, national cohesion, national loyalty, nation building and national 
question. It is the conscious effort at blurring the lines of divide that 
exist among diverse ethnic groups that exist within a polity. National 
integration is also seen as a process whereby members of a social 
system defined as its citizens, develop linkages and location so that the 
boundaries of the system persist over time and boundaries of sub-
systems becomes less consequential in affecting the behaviours of 
these diverse ethnic groups.4 
Ogunjite, further added that these efforts are aimed at achieving 
development without jeopardizing these diversities. National 
Integration therefore is the process of unifying a society which tends to 
make harmonious city, based on an order its members regard as 
equitably harmonious to achieve the much-needed development in an 
equitable manner. This integration therefore is expected to foster and 
promote unity that allows the diverse group interacts. National 
integration is seen as relating to the building of nation state out of 
disparate socio-economic, religious, ethnic and geographical element. It 
is the translation of different and unorganized sentiments of 
nationalism into the spirit of citizenship through the creation of state 
institutions that can translate into policy and programmes that are in 
line with the aspirations of the citizenry.5 
National integration therefore, is the conscious process to bring 
together the diverse ethnic groups in Nigeria through programmes 
                                                           4EdosaEnaruna, “National Integration, Citizenship, Political participation and 
Democratisation Stability in Nigeria, International Journal of Arts and Humanities 
(IJAH), Vol.3(3), S/No 11, IJAH: Batir Dar (Ethiopia), 63. 
http://dx.doi.org/10.4314/ijah.v313.6  5Ogunjite Lewis O, “Federal Character as an Integration Mechanism Alternative 
Political future for Nigeria” in Stephen Odugbemi (ed.)  Nigeria Political Science 
Association (NPSA), Lagos, 1987.   
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Establishment of National Youth Service Corp (NYSC) and… 
77 
 
instituted in such a way that blurs the different lines of divide that exist 
between the ethnics groups in an effort to achieve unity and 
development at all level, where every member of the community is 
involved irrespective of his or her ethnic identity. It should be noted 
that national integration and unity is different from the kind of oneness 
associated to kinship, clanship, racial as well as any form of cultural 
affiliations in a country. However, it depicts unity in diversity. National 
integration mechanisms that have been used by various 
administrations in the country include, among others; Federal unity 
schools, the federal character principle, relocation of the federal capital 
territory to Abuja considered to be the center of the country, revenue 
sharing formula/fiscal federalism and the NYSC programme.6 
 
Events Prior to the Establishment of NYSC 
The establishment of the NYSC owes a lot first, to the continuous 
agitation by Nigerian  students and youths prior to the civil war to 
provide a national scheme that captures them in the developmental 
processes modeled on Kwameh Nkrumah’s Young Pioneers of Ghana 
Scheme, secondly, the clamor by the Committee of Vice Chancellor of 
Universities in 1969 for National Youth Programme, thirdly, the media 
and finally, the deliberate efforts by the Gowon administration in the 
country to right the ills of the civil war.7  
In the period from 1965 there were lots of agitations by Nigerians 
especially youths to be involved in the country’s development..Also, in 
1969, the committee of Vice Chancellors of Universities chaired by 
Professor Adeoye Lambo clamored for the provision of the 
undergraduate students in their various institutions especially those 
that had completed the first year of their three years program to be 
                                                           6AyindefataiAremu, “National Youth Service Corps programmes and The Quest for 
National Integratio: Issues for Policy Consideratio”, Journal of Management and 
Social Sciences, 2018, 281. 7 Gregory Enegwea and Gabriel Umoden, NYSC: Twenty Years of National…, 8-9. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                 S. A. Wada 
78 
 
involved in a compulsory one year scheme, to inculcate “the spirit of 
service and patriotism while promoting national integration in the 
country”.8 
The idea was lauded by various media that existed in the 
country.9These agitations were still not conceded to by the then 
administration. It was not until 1968 that the Nigerian government set 
up a Study committee headed by late Lt Col Nicholas Ajayi Ayanru to 
advise on the likelihood of establishing a youth service corps for 
Nigeria. 
It was in the effort to promote the unity of the country at the end of the 
civil war, that Federal Government declared a “no Victory no Vanquish 
police”.10  The administration as a result, embarked on national 
programmes with the rehabilitation, reconstruction and reconciliation 
of the country in mind with intentions to solve the problems that 
resulted to the war from the root. This necessitated the government to 
quickly turn to the proposed National Youth Service Scheme.11 The 
Federal Government declared 20th May 1972 as National Youth Day, 
which was followed by intentions of establishing two National Youth 
service scheme that would be both compulsory and voluntary.12  
After series of deliberations and consultations at the eight convocation 
of the Ahmadu Bello University in July 1972, the Military Head of State 
General Gowon sought the opinion of the youth to come up with their 
own ideas to ensure the kick off the NYSC in the country. It was in this 
euphoria that series of deliberations and consultations were made 
resulting to what is known today as the National Youth Service Scheme 
                                                           8 Gregory Enegwea and Gabriel Umoden, NYSC: Twenty Years of National Service, 
National Youth Service Corps directorate Headquaters: Yaba (Lagos), 1993, 9 9Gregory Enegwea and Gabriel Umoden, NYSC: Twenty Years of National…, 9. 10 Gregory Enegwea and Gabriel Umoden, NYSC: Twenty Years of National…, 9. 11 Gregory Enegwea and Gabriel Umoden, NYSC: Twenty Years of National…, 10. 12 Gregory Enegwea and Gabriel Umoden, NYSC: Twenty Years of National…, 10. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Establishment of National Youth Service Corp (NYSC) and… 
79 
 
(NYSC). It is thus safe to say that, the establishment of NYSC was a 
deliberate effort by the military government and the Nigerian people, 
especially, the youths to contribute their quota to the unity, 
development and continuity of the nation.  
The NYSC scheme engages in four important activities to achieve its 
objectives which have significant impact on the country’s unity and 
integration. Each of this stage is important in fostering national unity 
among these youths and the country at large. They include; the 
Orientation Programme, Primary Assignment, Community 
Development Service and the Winding Up/Passing-Out.  
The three weeks of orientation which takes place in the NYSC 
orientation camps of each states is a preparatory camp organized to 
inculcate in these Corps’ Members the knowledge of the states; the 
ethnic groups, culture, religion and languages, in an attempt to enable 
them understand the country’s diversity. Hence, making them to see 
either similarities or differences and helping them to embrace them. As 
these states welcome them as a representative of the government into 
their states and by large the communities they are posted at the end of 
the camp for their primary assignments. This stage of the NYSC is 
aimed at achieving the objective 4 (b) which states that, each group, 
assigned to work together is a representative of the country as 
possible. This reason has made community where these corps member 
serve accept and welcome them irrespective of their ethos during their 
service year. These communities even go further to provide security 
and shelter for the Corps Members. 
 
Impact of NYSC to National Integration 
The NYSC is a deliberate social engineering or  succinctly put, is a key 
component of what ought to be a more comprehensive package of 
programmes, policies, incentive structures and slogan designed to 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                 S. A. Wada 
80 
 
wield Nigeria’s disparate people into a cohesive nation,13  especially the 
youths who are going to constitute the future leaders of the country. 
This was re-iterated by the statement of the then head of government, 
Yakubu Gowon when he asserted that; “youths constitute a dominant 
force for national mobilization and growth and as such have a crucial 
role to play in the all-important task of national-building.14 
This shows the importance placed on the scheme as a tool that will 
foster the spirit of the upcoming generation who are and will constitute 
the major workforce of the country. The Scheme is specifically targeted 
at youths broadly defined as graduates of our tertiary institutions of 
learning.15  The idea therefore to create the NYSC scheme was indeed a 
solution that will enable the country bridge the gap of distrust and 
disunity among different ethnic nationalities in the country. This 
scheme is different from other National Youth Service schemes that 
have been adopted by other countries in Africa, who like Nigeria are 
defined by their multicultural diversity. As Chioma stated, the NYSC 
scheme in Nigeria is unique and different from the scheme that have 
been practiced by other states not just in Africa but also in Asian 
countries. According to her, youth service schemes in these countries 
has objectives which reflect the particular country's main problems and 
priorities, ranging from the problem of high unemployment among the 
youth, bridging the gaps between urban/rural areas, elite/mass; skill 
acquisition, the development of self-reliant people; or a combination of 
all. But Nigeria's National Youth Service Corps scheme is unique in the 
sense that its objectives are not limited to the above, but go further to 
emphasize the country's own particular problems which was national 
integration, the forging of national unity and integration among the 
                                                           13 Gregory Enegwea and Gabriel Umoden, NYSC: Twenty Years of National…, 3. 14 See General Yakubu Gowon message to the first batch of the corp members, 
July 2, 1973, “twenty year”, in Gregory Enegwea and Gabriel Umoden, NYSC: 
Twenty Years of National…, 1. 15 Gregory Enegwea and Gabriel Umoden, NYSC: Twenty Years of National…, 3. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Establishment of National Youth Service Corp (NYSC) and… 
81 
 
heterogeneous peoples.16 It is note-worthy that these youths unlike 
those of countries like Ethiopia, Kenya, USA,17  are graduates with very 
large skill base from different tertiary institutions and professions 
contributing to the country’s development. 
More so, one of the ways NYSC Scheme has been able to impact national 
integration and unity is through its Community Development Service 
(CDS). NYSC has further, through the CDS, been able to achieve the 
objective of instilling the idea of “sense of community” in the upcoming 
generation of the country. This is seen in the CDS programme 
introduced by the scheme. Apart from the corps members serving in 
their places of primary assignment they also engage in CDS within the 
community they serve. Corps members engage in the CDS program 
from the beginning of their service year after camp to the end of the 
service year. The concept of the community development service by the 
National youth service is to instill the idea of community which existed 
in African societies, likewise, Nigerian societies before the coming of 
the colonial master. This is why the community development service is 
one of the cardinal programme of the scheme which has a significant 
impact on national integration in Nigeria by providing these youth 
corps members the opportunity to undertake developmental activities 
during their service year as part of their own contribution to national 
development.  
According to the United Nations, community development is an 
educational method that unites the efforts of the people themselves 
with those of government authorities aimed at improving the 
economic, social and cultural conditions of communities to integrate 
them into the life of the nation, making them to contribute fully to 
                                                           16ChiomaOnwere, National Youth Service Corps Programme and National 
Integration in Nigeria, (a doctoral Thesis Submitted to the Department of 
International and Comparative Education, Institute of Education, University of 
London, 1992), 108  17ChiomaOnwere, National Youth Service Corps Programme and…, 106-108. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                 S. A. Wada 
82 
 
national progress. This is argued, to inculcate in the member of the 
community a sense of citizenship and civic consciousness.18  
If seen through the context of Easton’s definition of community service 
which he considered it as “a sense of community”, and also the amount 
of affective orientation the member of a political system has towards 
the other members of the community,19  the NYSC community 
development service shows the direct impact of the scheme as a tool 
for promoting national integration. This is because, the corps members 
who come from different state, community and posted to another 
within the country are not only engaged in these communities they are 
posted to, but also embark on individual projects for achieving and 
contributing their own small quota to the development of that 
community. This act can only be done when a sense of community and 
belonging to the nation is felt; a concept the government through the 
NYSC scheme have been achieving for over forty years since the 
establishment of NYSC.  
Furthermore, in the scheme’s efforts toward national integration, the 
NYSC has made it possible for the country to have a vast number of 
youths who are qualified as workforce for the country. These youths 
cannot be employed in any government or public parastatal without 
completing the one-year national youth service. The NYSC therefore, 
makes them qualified to be employed in any government or public 
parastatal within the country irrespective of their state of origin.  
As long as they meet the requirements of these positions they are 
seeking. These requirements include first before any other requirement 
                                                           18 Oyebanniyi MA and UmofeaInemesitEssiet, “influence of the Activities of the 
National Youth Service Corps Scheme on Knowledge of Social Issues in Host 
Communities in Rivers and Akwa Ibom States”, Internal Journal of Educationa and 
Evaluation, Vol.2, No.2, 2016, 30, ISSN 2489-0073 19  See Easton in ChiomaOnwere, National Youth Service Corps Programme and …, 
111 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Establishment of National Youth Service Corp (NYSC) and… 
83 
 
after 1973 NYSC Act, the successful completion of the NYSC. Making it 
possible for the Federal Government to achieve its other policy of quota 
system in employments, within the federal Parastatal and to some 
extent, states parastatal with qualified and experienced personnel. 
As these youth have mingled with different people from within the 
country and thus apply for position irrespective of the place in the 
country as long, they are qualified without fear of antagonism after 
their service. Some of these youths, after their service having 
understood that the knowledge, they possessed of other ethnic groups 
were different from what they met and saw while serving, end up even 
starting their life in these places. Some of these corps members, go as 
far as marrying from these communities or states, starting a family as 
they realize, life in other parts are not so different from what they were 
used to in their own respective states of origin.   
 
Conclusion 
In conclusion, this chapter was able to look at the concept of national 
integration as the process that is aimed at deliberate efforts to unite the 
different ethnic, social and religious nationalities that exist within 
Nigeria. It also looked at the establishment of the NYSC scheme as a 
policy of the Federal Government under the Decree 24 of 1973, to blur 
the lines of divide that existed between the different ethnic groups in 
the country. This was done in an attempt at ensuring the peace, unity 
and development of the country irrespective of the ethnic group that 
individual, especially youth belong to and also create a sense of 
patriotism to the Nigerian state.  
The NYSC establishment owes a lot to this intention and those of the 
youths, committee of Vice-Chancellors of Universities and the media in 
Nigeria right from the period before the civil war. After its 
establishment, the NYSC has impacted on the national integration of the 
country by ensuring that youths, irrespective of their ethnic group 
participate in the compulsory one-year service in states other than 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                 S. A. Wada 
84 
 
theirs. This has made the NYSC embark on certain activities like 
Mobilisation, orientation, posting and CDS for the Youth Corps 
Members in achieving its objectives targeted at fostering national 
cohesion.  
This makes the NYSC scheme a tool used by the Federal Government to 
realise the policy of achieving national integration among the disparate 
ethnic, religious and socio-cultural groups that exists in the country 
through the youths, who are perceived as the future leaders and 
citizens of the country. As without national integration, development at 
all level of the country becomes difficult. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Establishment of National Youth Service Corp (NYSC) and… 
85 
 
Bibliography 
 
Akpan P. A., “The Role of Higher Education in National Integration in 
Nigeria.” In Higher Education, Vol.19, 1990. 
AremufataiAyinde, “National Youth Service Corps Programmes and The 
Quest for National Integration: Issues for Policy Consideration”, 
Journal of Management and Social Sciences, 2018. 
Ataide H O and Enebong M T, “Ethnic politics and National Integration 
in Nigeria: An Impact Analysis”, Global journal of Human-Social 
Science (F), Global Journal, Vol. 20, Issue 7, Version 1.0, 2020. 
Balogun, Y, “Why youth service in Nigeria: The contests and agitations 
in 1972-1973”. 
The Journal of Pan African Studies, Vol. 7, No.8.2015 
Daniel Risiagbon Ogbeide, “Evaluation of Public policies: The Case of 
National Youth service Corp in Nigeria”, Journal of political 
science and leadership Research, Vol.3, No.3, 2017. 
Edosa Enaruna, “National Integration, Citizenship, Political 
participation and Democratisation Stability in Nigeria, 
International Journal of Arts and Humanities (IJAH), Vol.3(3), 
S/No 11, IJAH: Batir Dar (Ethiopia). 
http://dx.doi.org/10.4314/ijah.v313.6 
Enegwea G. and Umoden,G., NYSC: Twenty Years of National Service, 
National Youth Service Corps directorate Headquarters: Yaba 
(Lagos), 1993. 
Ogunjite Lewis O, “Federal character as an Integration Mechanism 
Alternative Political future for Nigeria” in Stephen Odugbemi 
(ed.)  Nigeria Political Science Association (NPSA), Lagos, 1987. 
Ogbujah C.,“Fostering National Integration: A guide from Nyerere’s 
Philosophy of Ujamaa”, Research on Humanities and Social 
Sciences,Vol.4, No.26, 2014. www.iiste.org 
Onifade, C. A. And Imhonopi, D., “Towards National Integration in 
Nigeria: Jumping the Hurdles”, in Research on Humanities and 
Social Sciences,Vol.3, No.9, 2013. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                 S. A. Wada 
86 
 
Oyebanniyi MA and UmofeaInemesit Essiet, “Influence of the Activities 
of the National Youth Service Corps Scheme on Knowledge of 
Social Issues in Host Communities in Rivers and Akwa Ibom 
States”, Internal Journal of Education and Evaluation, Vol.2, 
No.2, 2016. ISSN 2489-0073 
Sanda, A. O. Problems and Prospects of the National Youth Service 
Corps in Nigeria Lagos: Academy Press Ltd1980. 
Weiner M., Political Unification, New York, 1976. 
Imhonopi, D. And Urim, U. M. “Nigeria’s Expensive Democratic 
Federation: A Confederal Option for Development”. A Paper 
Presented at the learned Conference and Summit of the Society 
for Peace Studies and Practice on “Nationalities, Identities and 
Terrorism: The Nigerian Experience”, held at the Institute of 
African Studies, University of Ibadan, November 5 - 6, 2012. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Deployment of Corps Members as a tool for National Integration 
87 
 
    66 66    
    NYSC Deployment of Corps Members as a tool for 
National Integration 
 
 
Anyaraku Sewuse Yvonne 
 
 
Introduction 
Nigeria, like many other multi-ethnic countries of Africa and Asia, is 
faced with the crucial problem of national integration. In Nigeria's case 
however there is the combination and convergence of chronic, ethnic 
intolerance, religious polarization and political organizational power 
drives, within a structure of ruthless competition. Indeed, few countries 
have been more unstable than Nigeria; a situation which has greatly 
militated against any meaningful economic development. Efforts by 
governments to hold the different ethnic groups together, to inculcate a 
sense of oneness through constitutional reforms have met with little 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                A.S. Yvonne 
88 
 
success, with the peoples' allegiance to their particular ethnic groups 
continuing to surpass their loyalty to the national community.  
But as long as parochial ethnic loyalties, built upon communal 
reinforcement of language, religion and other aspects of culture remain 
paramount, the achievement of an integrated society will remain a 
difficult task. The creation of states in Nigeria, for example has achieved 
little more than the substitution of tribalism with statism, while the 
abandonment of the Westminster model of government in favour of the 
American system has not so far withstood the strain of ethnic rivalry.  
It was to ameliorate inter-ethnic relations, to bridge both the cultural 
and physical gaps that polarize the different ethnic groups, and to instil 
a sense of national identity that the National Youth Service Corps 
programme was established. The purpose of this study is to examine 
the topic of national integration as it applies to Nigeria through the 
evaluation of the effectiveness of the National Youth Service Corps 
programme in this regard. 
 
National Integration: A Conceptualization 
National integration is the process of unifying a multi-ethnic country, 
not necessarily into a single-ethnic one but into a united indivisible 
entity where primordial affiliations are made secondary for the greater 
good of the united nation. It can also be seen as the building of a 
national state but of disparate social, economic, religious, ethnic and 
geographical elements which entails the translation of diffused and 
unorganized sentiments on nationalism into a spirit of citizenship 
through the creation of state institutions that can translate into policies 
and programmes and aspirations of the citizenry. 1 
                                                           1 Oni, M., &Ogundinwin, A Four Republics: A Critical Discourse of the Culture of 
Political Parties, In Osuntokun, A, Ukaogo,A., Akachi,O (eds). Nigerian Studies- 
Readings in History, Politics, Society and Culture. New Jersey: Goldmine and Jacob 
Publishers, 2010. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Deployment of Corps Members as a tool for National Integration 
89 
 
In their own submission, Fatile and Adejuwon2 conceptualize national 
integration as the process whereby several disparate groups within a 
given territorial entity are united together or co-operate under 
conditions which do not appear to permit satisfaction of the system 
needs in any other way. They concluded by stating that the goal of 
national integration is an arrangement in a plural society where 
component parts are reasonably contented in the polity vis-a-vis equity 
and justice in resource allocation and access to equal opportunities. It 
must also be stated that it is the progressive reduction of cultural and 
regional tensions and discontinuities in the process of creating a 
homogenous political community. 
Duverger cited in Ojo,3 defines it as the process of unifying a society 
which tends to make it a harmonious city based upon an order its 
members regard as equitably harmonious. To Haas, national 
integration is a process whereby political actors in distinct national 
settings are persuaded to shift their loyalties, expectations and political 
activities towards a new centre, whose institutions possess or demand 
jurisdiction over the pre-existing nation-state. Also, Ogunojemite 
defines national integration as a process leading to political cohesion 
and sentiments of loyalty toward a central political authority and 
institutions by individual belonging to different social groups or 
political unit. 
 
National Integration 
National integration is the awareness of a common identity amongst 
the citizens of a country. It means that though citizens belong to 
different castes, religions, regions and speak different languages, they 
                                                           2Fatile, J., &Adejuwon, K.. Ethnicity and National Integration in Nigeria:Thepost 
Colonial Experience, In Osuntokun, A, Ukaogo,A., Akachi,O (eds). Nigerian Studies- 
Readings  in  History,  Politics,Society  and  Culture.  New  Jersey:  Goldmine  and  
JacobPublishers, 2010. 3Ojo,  E.  .  Federalism  and  the  Search  for  National  Integration  in  Nigeria.  
African Journal of Political Science and International Relations , 3.9(2009): 384-
395. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                A.S. Yvonne 
90 
 
still recognize themselves as one. This kind of integration is very 
important in the building of a strong and prosperous nation. National 
integration can also be seen as the process whereby several desperate 
groups within a given territorial are united together or cooperate 
under conditions which do not appear to permit satisfaction of their 
system needs in any other way.4 It implies unity in diversity.5 
According to Elaigwu in Aderonke, national integration is determined 
by the degree to which members and groups in a plural society adapt to 
the demands of national existence while co-existing harmoniously.6 On 
the practical note, national integration is a process, not an end in itself 
and it is usually affected by contending social forces. It is a process 
leading to political cohesion and sentiments of loyalty toward a central 
political authority and institutions by individuals belonging to different 
social groups or political units. It is a process whereby political actors 
in distinct national setting are persuaded to shift their loyalties, 
expectations and political activities towards a new centre, whose 
institution possess or demand jurisdiction over preexisting nation-
state.7 Shona in Okorie and Greg also notes that, National Integration is 
the awareness of a common identity amongst the citizens of a country. 
Nigeria is a country with about 250 ethnic nationalities distinctively 
isolated in terms of religion, languages.8 
                                                           4Aderonke, M. “Federal Character Principle as a Recipe for National Integration in 
Nigeria: An Overview.” International Journal of Advanced Research in 
Management and Social Sciences. Volume 2(6), 2013:65-84. www.garph.co.uk  5Asaju, K and Egberi, T.  “Federal Character and National Integration in Nigeria: 
The Need for Discretion and Interface.” Review of History and Political Science – 
American Research Institute for Policy Development. Volume 3 Number 1, 
2015:126-134. http://dx.doi.org/10.15640/rhps.v3n1a12. 6Aderonke, 65-84. 7Aderonke, 65-84 8Shona, K. “National Integration: Complete Information on the Meaning, Features 
and Promotion of National Integration in India.” 
http://www.preservearticles.com/ and Okorie, C.O and Greg, E. “Federal 
Character Principles, Nation Building and National Integration in Nigeria: Issues 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Deployment of Corps Members as a tool for National Integration 
91 
 
Therefore, from all of that, National integration binds people together 
to live in peace and unity. It gives freedoms of movement where 
everybody can move or reside in any part of the country without 
restriction from anybody. It encourages tolerance among people in 
respective of their tribes or religious beliefs. It gives rooms for inter-
marriage among different tribes or ethnic groups in the country. It 
brings about the achievement of political, social, economic and cultural 
objectives, and lastly it enables youths to get familiar with the culture 
and traditions of other people in the country through National Youth 
Service Corps (NYSC) so that they accord respect to them.  
 
Migration 
The history of Nigerian societies has been characterized by different 
forms of migration and inter-group relations since the pre-colonial era. 
This has made the study of migration and inter-group relations 
inevitable overtime.9  Since no community or society lives in isolation or 
can be self-sufficient in both production and consumption of its goods 
and services, hence interdependence becomes imperative for survival 
of human societies.10 Moreover, the Nigerian societies, even before 
colonial period, were considered as neighbours as a result of migration 
which is an integral part of history of mankind as well as inter-group 
relations.11 
 
 
                                                                                                                                       
and Options.” Mediterranean Journal of Social Sciences. (MCSER) 4(16), 2013:33-
40. Doi: 10.5901/miss. 9 Ojukwu, C.C. “Globalization, Migration and Philosophy of In-word looking: The 
Contemporary Igbo Nation in Perspective.” In Journal of Political Science and 
International Relations. Volume 3 (3), 2009:86. 10Falola, T. et al. History of Nigeria I: Nigeria before 1800 AD. (Ibadan: Longman, 
1889.) 122-123. 11 This is because an important feature of all human societies is interdependence, 
for we need one another if for nothing but for survival since no city or community 
can ever develop through the inputs of her indigenes alone. See Falola et al, 122-
123. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                A.S. Yvonne 
92 
 
Several scholars who have studied migration have provided different 
explanations on the concept. These include: Abdulwahab, 12Amin, 
13Crisp,14 Russell,15 Ahmad,16 Bako,17 and so many others have made 
reference and relate it to the movement of people of different 
categories and ‘tribes’ such as; workers, labourers, merchants, scholars, 
etc., from one village, town, city, area, geographical zone, state, country 
and continent to another.18 
 
Various Phases of the NYSC Scheme 
There are four cardinal programmes of the National Youth Service 
Corps, and they are as follows;  
Mobilization: This entails collections and collation of data on all 
Prospective Corps Members from the various Corps Producing 
Institutions nation-wide whose graduates are qualified for enlistment 
into the Scheme. Nigerian graduates from foreign institutions report 
directly to the Directorate Headquarters Abuja, for the evaluation of 
their certificates preparatory to deployment. Foreign- trained 
graduates should note that only those who graduated before they 
turned 30 are eligible to serve irrespective of their age on arrival in 
Nigeria. It is age at graduation for the first degree that matters.  
 
                                                           12Abdulwahab, T. “Ethnic Relations: A Study of Hausa Community in Ogbomosho, 
Nigeria, 1924 – 1967.” In Journal of Social Science Volume 17, 2008:259. 13 Amin, A. (ed). Introduction to Modern Migration and Pro-Poor Policy in West 
Africa. (London: Oxford University Press, 1974). 92. 14 Crips, J. “Policy changes of the new Diasporas: Migrant Network and their 
Impact on Asylum Flows and Regimes.” In New Issues on Refugee Research. 
http.//www.jha.sps.com.al.uk/c  p.7 15Rusell, S. “Workers’ Remittances, Remittance Decay and Financial Deepening 
Countries.” http//www.remodeling.hw.net/industry news.asp. 16 Ahmad, A.OColonization and Labour Migration: The Ebira in Owo, Ondo State of 
Nigeria. (Nigeria: Zakara Publishing Company Ltd, 2005). 38-43. 17 Bako, A. Sabon Gari Kano: A History of Immigrants and Inter-group Relations in 
the 20th Century. (Sokoto: Usman Danfodiyo University Press, 2006). 36. 18 Bako, 36. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Deployment of Corps Members as a tool for National Integration 
93 
 
Orientation Course: The orientation programme provides the first 
venue for affecting the desired change of attitude, as participants 
receive training in preparation for their next assignment of selfless and 
patriotic service to their fatherland. The Orientation Course usually 
holds for three weeks (21 days). The purpose of the course is also to 
introduce corps members to and familiarize them with the ideals of the 
Scheme. It is compulsory for every participant to be inducted through 
orientation training before service. At the end of the course, corps 
members are given posting letters to their various Places of Primary 
Assignment. 
 
Primary Assignment: The NYSC ensures that corps members posted 
are properly utilized. Corps members are therefore, as much as 
possible; posted to areas relevant to their discipline although 
sometimes national need may override this consideration. Wrong 
posting or under-utilization of corps members, when established is 
corrected through reposting by the NYSC secretariat.  
 
Community Development Service (CDS).  In identifying with the 
current national objectives, the NYSC CDS has ventured into agriculture 
thus several corps members who specialize in agriculture and allied 
disciplines and who are also posted within the same locality are 
organized to work in rotational schedules on the farms. Furthermore, 
the generality of corps members are expected to undertake a year 
round CDS in addition to their Primary Assignment, at least one 
Community Development project in their neighborhood, in groups after 
consultation with the community people. Some suggested projects 
under the year-round community development programmes are as 
follows:  
i. Mass literacy. 
ii.  Technologies/scientific inventions and fabrications.  
iii.  Organizing local people to take more interest in indigenous art, 
drama, and music and dances.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                A.S. Yvonne 
94 
 
iv.  Public health education, immunization and health care delivery, 
preventive and curative horticulture, tree planting-landscaping 
environmental beautification.  
It becomes imperative to emphatically state at this juncture that under 
the leadership of Gen. Ibrahim, the Management of NYSC Scheme has 
divested into some youth empowerment and entrepreneurship 
ventures such as; tailoring, printing, food production and processing. 
cottage industries, using local raw materials and Corps Manpower 
Resources. 
 
Idea of Service or NYSC Service Scheme 
In contemporary times, service has moved from its conceptualization in 
terms of individual actions and has come to be seen in terms of 
“societal systems of care and governance” 19 while ways of enacting this 
have become increasingly formal, institutionalized and cross-cultural. 
However, the way in which civil service is conceptualized is 
conditioned by political, ideological, economic, social, as well as cultural 
beliefs in different societies.20 
National service can be presented as a means of achieving unity, to 
which much lip serve is paid, without any concomitant fundamental 
political process.21 It is therefore clear from these statements that the 
overriding raison d’etre of service here is not essentially about the 
intrinsic value of service, but about what service can do, that is, what 
results from the process of service as military Head of State affirmed:  
                                                           19 Menon, N., Moore, A., Sherraden, M. Understanding Service: Words in the 
Context of History and Culture (CSD Working Paper). (St. Louis, Missouri: 
Washington University, Center for Social Development, 2002). 9. 20  Patel, L. “Theoretical Perspectives on the Political Economy of Service.” In 
Perold, H., Stroud, S and Sherraden, M. eds. Service Enquiry Service in the 21st 
Century. (St. Louis, Missouri: GSI, 2003). 15-20. 21Statism, E.O. “Youth and Civic Imagination: A Critical Study of the National Youth 
Service Corps (NYSC) Programme in Nigeria.” Centre for Social Development (CSD) 
Report 05-18 (Washington University in St. Louis, USA. 2005).19 & 21. 
http://gwbweb.wustl.edu/csd/gsi 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Deployment of Corps Members as a tool for National Integration 
95 
 
If Nigeria is to make rapid progress in all fronts and make a mark on 
the continent of Africa, and indeed, in the comity of nations, her youths 
must be fully mobilized and be prepared to offer willingly and without 
asking for return, their best in the service of their nation at all times.22 
In other words, the purpose (of the scheme)’ says the founding father, 
Yakubu Gowon, in June 1973 is primarily to inculcate in Nigerian 
youths, the spirit of selfless service to the community and to emphasize 
the spirit of oneness and brotherhood of all Nigerians irrespective of 
cultural background. The history of our country since independence 
has clearly indicated the need for unity amongst all people.23 
Therefore, contesting the social imaginary of commonality, oneness, 
spatial contiguity and patriotic fervour which constitute the very 
foundation of the scheme, reveals the deleterious effects of political 
dynamics within contemporary Nigerian state on a program which was 
actually designed to “raise the moral tone of Nigerian youths.” This was 
to be achieved by giving them (the youths) the opportunity to learn and 
know more about their country and the higher ideals of service to the 
community – beyond the thought of reward- in addition to 
consolidating the corporate existence and common destiny of the 
people of Nigeria.24 
National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) whose cardinal aims was the 
promotion of national unity or unity in diversity and supply of labour 
to areas of shortage, had played a vital role, in this regard, for example, 
Igbo migration to Katsina metropolis.25 This shown that NYSC was 
established by the Gowon administration in 197326 with a view to 
                                                           22General Yakubu Gowon, Nigeria’s Military Head of State (1966-1975), during the 
formal inauguration of the NYSC Directorate, June 4, 1973. 23Enegwea, G and Umoden, G. NYSC: Twenty Years of National Service. (Abuja: 
NYSC Directorate 1993). 15& 25. 24Enegwea and Umoden, 12. 25Enegwea and Umoden, 12. 26 The NYSC scheme was created in a bid to reconstruct, reconcile and rebuild the 
country after the Nigerian Civil war. The unfortunate antecedents in our national 
history gave impetus to the establishment of the National Youth Service Corps by 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                A.S. Yvonne 
96 
 
forging national unity in the country. The scheme affords young 
graduates of tertiary institutions the opportunity to render one year 
compulsory service in states other than their own. The programme is 
viewed as a veritable tool for promoting national unity, inter-tribal or 
ethnic marriages and other forms of social intercourse among 
members. This point to the usefulness of the scheme as a vehicle for 
national unity. 27 In other words, the urgent need to ameliorate inter-
ethnic relations and to inculcate a sense of national identity among 
Nigerians. The case of Civil War in Nigeria and subsequent military 
coups and ethno-religious violence in the country give a note of 
urgency to this call. To achieve this end, that is, dissipate hostile 
feelings, prejudice and ethnic rivalries among different ethnic groups, 
and inculcate the right spirit of tolerance and national identification, 
the Nigerian government established the National Youth Service Corps 
programme for all university graduate youths.  
The scheme is a cross-cultural education programme which is expected 
to have a favourable impact on participants' fundamental attitudes 
towards other ethnic groups and the nation, thereby help bring about 
national integration. To do this, the scheme demands that the graduate 
youths are posted to serve among ethnic groups which are different 
from their own, for one full year. By living and working among the 
different ethnic groups for such a prolonged period of time, and 
                                                                                                                                       
decree No.24 of 22nd May 1973 which stated that the NYSC is being established 
"with a view to the proper encouragement and development of common ties 
among the youths of Nigeria and the promotion of national unity.” In other words, 
the purpose of the scheme is primarily to inculcate in Nigerian Youths the spirit of 
selfless service to the community, and to emphasize the spirit of oneness and 
brotherhood of all Nigerians, irrespective of cultural or social background. The 
history of Nigeria since independence has clearly indicated the need for unity 
amongst all its people, and demonstrate the fact that no cultural or geographical 
entity can exist in isolation. Chikezie, O. F. “NYSC Permanent Orientation Camp, 
Katampe Extension. Abuja A Study of Adaptable Spaces.” {M.Sc. (Arch) 
Dissertation, University of Nigeria, 2011). 6-9. 27Tangban, O.E. “History and the Quest for Unity in Nigeria” International Journal 
of Social Science and Humanity, Volume 4 Number 5, 2014:2. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Deployment of Corps Members as a tool for National Integration 
97 
 
thereby interacting with them, the government expects that such close 
contact will lead to better inter-ethnic relations and national 
identification.28 
 
The Role of Youths in Peace Building 
Youths occupy a prominent place in any society. Apart from being the 
owners and leaders of tomorrow, they outnumber the middle-aged and 
the aged. Besides numerical superiority, youths have energy and ideas 
that are society's great potentials. The National Youths Development 
Policy asserts that.29  Youths are the foundation of a society. Their 
energies, inventiveness, character and orientation define the pace of 
development and security of a nation. Through their creative talents 
and labour power, a nation makes giant strides in economic 
development and socio-political attainments. In their dreams and 
hopes, a nation founds her motivation; on their energies, she builds her 
vitality and purpose. And because of their dreams and aspirations, the 
future of a nation is assured. 30 
The statement above acknowledges the role of the youths in the peace 
and security of a nation. As the most active segment of any society, 
youths are the major determiners of peace and stability of a nation. 
Conversely, the degree of disorderliness and instability in society is 
also determined in part by youths. Peace is a precursor of development. 
The absence of peace means that no meaningful development can take 
place. The National Youth Policy affirms that the extent of the youth's 
                                                           28Onwere, C. “National Youth Service Corps Programme and National Integration 
in Nigeria.” (PhD Thesis, University of London, 1992). 92-97; Chidiogo, C.L. “Design 
and Implementation of NYSC Orientation Camp Information System (A Case Study 
NYSCAwgu).” (B.Ed. Project, Caritas University, Amorji Nike Enugu, September, 
2012). 1-10 and Edoka, J. “Effective Leadership and Organizational Performance: A 
Case Study of National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Kogi State.” (MSc. Thesis, 
University of Nigeria Nsukka January, 2012). 61-66. 29Onyekpe, N. (2007), Managing youths at election. The Constitution: A Journal of 
Constitutional Development 7 (1): 76-87. 30  Federal Republic of Nigeria (2001), National Youths Policy 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                A.S. Yvonne 
98 
 
“responsible conduct and roles in society is positively correlated with 
the development of their country”. 31 
According to Eberly and Gal,32 young people in national youth service 
organizations can play a vital role in post war community 
reconstruction, in maintaining peace in tense situations, and perhaps in 
preventing post-conflict squeal. Nigeria offers an excellent example of 
the utility of the youth participation in effecting post-conflict 
reconciliation. In the late 1960s Nigeria was plunged into civil war 
when one region – called Biafra – tried to break away from the rest of 
the country. The attempted breakaway can be traced directly to the fact 
that Nigeria is not a natural country, formed from within. Rather, its 
borders were drawn by the European powers meeting in Berlin late in 
the 19th century. They divided people of common language and 
culture, and they joined people of different cultures. 
Biafra failed in its effort to secede, but Nigeria decided it must 
endeavour to foster national unity. University students and other youth 
groups called for a national youth’s scheme, whose first project would 
be providing relief in war-torn areas. The Committee of Vice-
Chancellors called for one year of service by all university students 
following their first year. After much debate and considerable 
controversy, Head of State General Yakubu Gowon issued a decree in 
1973 establishing the National Youths Service Corps (NYSC) to develop 
“common ties among the youth of Nigerian and to promote national 
unity.” 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           31 Federal Republic of Nigeria (2001), National Youths Policy 32 Eberly, D.J. and Gal1, R. (2007), “A Role for Young People in Building Post-
Conflict Civil Society”, International Journal of Not-for-Profit Law / vol. 9, no. 4 
August 2007 / Pp. 73-78. Ed. pp 1-15. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Deployment of Corps Members as a tool for National Integration 
99 
 
The National Youth Service Corps Programme as an Integrative 
Mechanism 
The National Youth Service Corps was established under Decree 24 of 
1973, and was promulgated on 22 May 1973. A total of 2, 364 youths 
participated in its first year. The programme was arrived at to foster 
unity in the face of ethnic diversity following the unsuccessful attempt 
of the Eastern Region to secede, which resulted in the 30-month civil 
war (1967-70). It was urgent upon the Federal Military Government 
(FMG) to secure the victory over the failed Biafran nation, by setting in 
motion, an instrument that will ensure a peaceful co-existence not only 
with the Eastern Region, but also among all ethnic groups across the 
regions. Indeed, the immediate challenge of the post- war period was 
how to engage in deliberate social engineering, designing programmes 
and pursuing policies meant to promote national unity, de-emphasize 
points of discord among constituent groups, and foster greater inter-
ethnic understanding and harmony‟.33 
The choice of the youth for the programme above every other age 
group was based on the fact that they are considered as change agents 
needed for building a united Nigeria, and a way of achieving this is for 
the youths to imbibe and nurture a sense of common belonging and 
national consciousness which would transcend political, social, state 
and ethnic loyalties. The choice of the youth for the programme also 
stemmed from two continent – wide problems namely: youth 
unemployment and the emigration of young unskilled people from 
rural areas to urban ones. It was also a way for the nation to invest in 
its future; since youths constitute a dominant force for national 
mobilization and growth.34 
                                                           33Obadare, E. (2010). Statism, Youth and Civic Imagination-A critical Study of the 
National Youth Service Corps Programme in Nigeria. Dakar: CODESRIA. 34ibid 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                A.S. Yvonne 
100 
 
Ojo,35 arguing on the side of policy makers, who were of the opinion 
that an interaction among the emergent elite especially outside their 
ethnic base would enhance a better understanding among the various 
ethnic groups, justified the establishment of the National Youth Service 
Corps programme. To be sure, the enabling legislation that established 
the NYSC, Decree 24 of 1973 states explicitly the objectives as well as 
modus operandi of the programme. 
Of great significance to the concept of national integration is the 
objective of developing common ties among the various youths and to 
promote national unity by ensuring that the youths are assigned to jobs 
in states other than their states of origin, with the intent of removing 
prejudices and eliminating ignorance among the young graduates- the 
emerging elite. 
There are numerous instances of Corps Members who decided to settle 
down in their host communities after completing their service. They 
either establish viable businesses or had built prosperous careers 
where they served.    
In a survey carried out on the NYSC in an attempt to foster national 
unity in the face of ethnic diversity, Iyizoba36 attempts to evaluate the 
successes of the youth Corps programme in achieving the goal of 
reducing inter-ethnic prejudice amongst the various ethnic groups in 
Nigeria. Adopting a cross-sectional strategy and using a sample size of 
75 current and past participants of the programme, he discovered that 
exposure to other ethnic groups were significantly related to prejudice 
of respondents; in other words, those that have had some exposure to 
                                                           35Ojo,  E.  (2009).  Federalism  and  the  Search  for  National  Integration  in  
Nigeria.  African Journal of Political Science and International Relations , 3(9), 384-
395. 36Iyizoba, W. (1982). Nigerian Youth Service Corps: An Evaluation of an Attempt to 
Foster 
National  Unity  in  the  Face  of  Ethnic  Diversity.  The  State  University  of  New  
Jersey, Department of Sociology, Gradute School of Rutgers, New 
Jersey.UnpublishedPh.D Thesis. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Deployment of Corps Members as a tool for National Integration 
101 
 
other ethnic groups were significantly less prejudiced than those with 
no exposure. This result gives the programme a positive score. The 
policy adopted to post youth to states other than their states of origin 
has eventually been justified as a right step in the right direction.  
 
Conclusion  
The present study was undertaken to investigate the effectiveness of 
the National Youth Service Corps programme in Nigeria in relation to 
its major objective which is to help bring about national integration. It 
also aims to identify factors that have an influenced the promotion or 
inhibition of integration in the context of the NYSC programme in view 
of Nigeria's long history of inter-ethnic hostility and political instability.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                A.S. Yvonne 
102 
 
Reference 
 
Abdulwahab, T. “Ethnic Relations: A Study of Hausa Community in 
Ogbomosho, Nigeria, 1924 – 1967.” In Journal of Social Science 
Volume 17, 2008:259. 
Aderonke, M. “Federal Character Principle as a Recipe for National 
Integration in Nigeria: An Overview.” International Journal of 
Advanced Research in Management and Social Sciences. Volume 
2(6), 2013:65-84. www.garph.co.uk  
Ahmad, A.O Colonization and Labour Migration: The Ebira in Owo, 
Ondo State of Nigeria. (Nigeria: Zakara Publishing Company Ltd, 
2005). 38-43. 
Amin, A. (ed). Introduction to Modern Migration and Pro-Poor Policy in 
West Africa. (London: Oxford University Press, 1974). 92. 
Asaju, K and Egberi, T.  “Federal Character and National Integration in 
Nigeria: The Need for Discretion and Interface.” Review of 
History and Political Science – American Research Institute for 
Policy Development. Volume 3 Number 1, 2015:126-134. 
http://dx.doi.org/10.15640/rhps.v3n1a12. 
Bako, A. Sabon Gari Kano: A History of Immigrants and Inter-group 
Relations in the 20th Century. (Sokoto: Usman Danfodiyo 
University Press, 2006). 36.  
Chidiogo, C.L. “Design and Implementation of NYSC Orientation Camp 
Information System (A Case Study NYSCAwgu).” (B.Ed. Project, 
Caritas University, Amorji Nike Enugu, September, 2012). 1-10 
Chikezie, O. F. “NYSC Permanent Orientation Camp, Katampe Extension. 
Abuja A Study of Adaptable Spaces.” {M.Sc. (Arch) Dissertation, 
University of Nigeria, 2011). 6-9. 
Crips, J. “Policy changes of the new Diasporas: Migrant Network and 
their Impact on Asylum Flows and Regimes.” In New Issues on 
Refugee Research. http.//www.jha.sps.com.al.uk/c  p.7 
Eberly, D.J. and Gal1, R. (2007), “A Role for Young People in Building 
Post-Conflict Civil Society”, International Journal of Not-for-
Profit Law / vol. 9, no. 4 August 2007 / Pp. 73-78. Ed. pp 1-15. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Deployment of Corps Members as a tool for National Integration 
103 
 
Edoka, J. “Effective Leadership and Organizational Performance: A Case 
Study of National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Kogi State.” (MSc. 
Thesis, University of Nigeria Nsukka January, 2012). 61-66. 
Enegwea, G and Umoden, G. NYSC: Twenty Years of National Service. 
(Abuja: NYSC Directorate 1993). 15& 25. 
Falola, T. et al. History of Nigeria I: Nigeria before 1800 AD. (Ibadan: 
Longman, 1889.) 122-123. 
Fatile, J., &Adejuwon, K.. Ethnicity and National Integration in 
Nigeria:Thepost Colonial Experience, In Osuntokun, A, 
Ukaogo,A., Akachi,O (eds). Nigerian Studies- Readings  in  
History,  Politics,Society  and  Culture.  New  Jersey:  Goldmine  
and  Jacob Publishers, 2010. 
Federal Republic of Nigeria (2001), National Youths Policy 
Iyizoba, W. (1982). Nigerian Youth Service Corps: An Evaluation of an 
Attempt to FosterNational  Unity  in  the  Face  of  Ethnic  
Diversity.  The  State  University  of  New  Jersey, Department of 
Sociology, Gradute School of Rutgers, New 
Jersey.UnpublishedPh.D Thesis. 
Menon, N., Moore, A., Sherraden, M. Understanding Service: Words in 
the Context of History and Culture (CSD Working Paper). (St. 
Louis, Missouri: Washington University, Center for Social 
Development, 2002). 9. 
NYSC News. A Journal of the NYSC Directorate Headquarters: NYSC, 
Abuja. 2010 
Obadare, E. (2010). Statism, Youth and Civic Imagination-A critical 
Study of the National Youth Service Corps Programme in 
Nigeria. Dakar: CODESRIA. 
Ojo, E.   Federalism and  the  Search  for  National  Integration  in  
Nigeria.  African Journal of Political Science and International 
Relations , 3.9 (2009): 384-395. 
Ojukwu, C.C. “Globalization, Migration and Philosophy of In-word 
looking: The Contemporary Igbo Nation in Perspective.” In 
Journal of Political Science and International Relations. Volume 
3 (3), 2009:86. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                A.S. Yvonne 
104 
 
Oni, M., &Ogundinwin, A Four Republics: A Critical Discourse of the 
Culture of Political Parties, In Osuntokun, A, Ukaogo,A., Akachi,O 
(eds). Nigerian Studies- Readings in History, Politics, Society 
and Culture. New Jersey: Goldmine and Jacob Publishers, 2010. 
Onwere, C. “National Youth Service Corps Programme and National 
Integration in Nigeria.” (PhD Thesis, University of London, 
1992). 92-97. 
Onyekpe, N. (2007), Managing youths at election. The Constitution: A 
Journal of Constitutional Development 7 (1): 76-87. 
Patel, L. “Theoretical Perspectives on the Political Economy of Service.” 
In Perold, H., Stroud, S and Sherraden, M. eds. Service Enquiry 
Service in the 21st Century. (St. Louis, Missouri: GSI, 2003). 15-
20. 
Rusell, S. “Workers’ Remittances, Remittance Decay and Financial 
Deepening Countries.” http//www.remodeling.hw.net/industry 
news.asp. 
Statism, E.O. “Youth and Civic Imagination: A Critical Study of the 
National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Programme in Nigeria.” 
Centre for Social Development (CSD) Report 05-18 
(Washington University in St. Louis, USA. 2005).19 & 21. 
http://gwbweb.wustl.edu/csd/gsi  
Tangban, O.E. “History and the Quest for Unity in Nigeria” International 
Journal of Social Science and Humanity, Volume 4 Number 5, 
2014:2. 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps: 
105 
 
 77 77    
    National Youth Service Corps: 
Dynamics of Community Development Service for 
National Integration and Unity in Nigeria 
 
 
Philibus Audu Nwamagyi 
 
 
Introduction 
The National Youth Service Corps was established in 1973 with the 
mandate to raise a class of patriotic, morally and physically disciplined 
Nigerian youths who graduated from universities and Polytechnics to 
undertake the National Service. During the mandatory one year service, 
corps members live among and within host communities facilitating 
unity and integration as well as championing community development 
by executing projects jointly with their host communities. Without 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                         P. A. Nwamagyi  
106 
 
doubt the commitment of the Scheme’s Management and proper 
guidance of corps members has resulted in great contributions to the 
social, political and economic transformation of the nation. The NYSC 
remained in the vanguard of the nation’s drive to promote self-help 
initiatives in rural and urban communities through the various 
development programmes executed by corps members with active 
participation of community members.1 
This excerpt encapsulates the main issues that this paper seeks to 
address. There is plethora of literature on the National Youth Service 
Corps, some of which touches on the various issues relating to socio-
economic and political development of Nigeria. However, a careful 
review and reconsideration of the extant works shows the need for a 
reexamination and reevaluation of the perspectives and insights of 
those scholars for new analysis of the place of the dynamics of the 
scheme on community development service, national integration and 
unity of Nigeria. 
As part of Gowon’s Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and Reconciliation 
(3Rs) after the civil war, the NYSC Scheme was meant to rebuild and 
reinsulated the spirit of unity and oneness into Nigerian youths for the 
wellbeing of the nation.2 No nation can achieve any meaningful 
development without the spirit of oneness and togetherness. The 
struggle of Nigeria’s heroes past for the freedom and independence of 
Nigeria togetherness for national progress and development and to 
create a society in which citizen will feel free to pursue their socio-
economic objectives without denial or infringement. However, 
                                                           1NYSC, ABC of Community Development Service, A Publication of the National 
Youth Service Corps, NYSC Community Development Service and Special Projects, 
May 2015, iv.  2Bem Japheth Audu, “Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim and the Reinvigoration of NYSC”, 
in CCC Osakwe, OE Tangban, AO Ahmed and LO Udeagbala (eds), War, Society and 
Leadership in Nigeria: Essays in Honour of Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim, 
Kaduna: NDA Publishers, 2020, 4. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps: 
107 
 
primordial sentiments manifesting in ethnic chauvinism, religious 
bigotry and regional differentiation began to rear their ugly heads as 
the struggle for power along regional and ethnic ideologies triggered 
unhealthy contestations that resulted in various frictions. The first 
military coup d’état of January 15, 1966 and the counter coup of July 
29, 1966, created an atmosphere of distrust and suspicion leading to 
civil unrest. When the civil war came to an end in 1970, there was an 
urgent need for peace and unity for the survival of the nation, part of 
which necessitated the introduction of the NYSC scheme.  
 
Establishment and Operation of National Youth Service Corps 
One of the significant strategies adopted by the Gowon regime since the 
end of Nigerian civil war in 1970 was to consolidate on the foundations 
of country’s unity and the introduction of the NYSC scheme.3 The NYSC 
was among other numerous programs initiated in order to reintegrate 
a people into a nation engulfed in a civil unrest for almost three years. 
The Scheme was set up to make Nigerian youth-graduates contribute 
positively to building a united nation for socio-economic development 
through Community Development Service for national integration and 
unity. Although there were no military conscriptions since 1973, 
Nigerian University and Polytechnics graduates were and are being 
required to be part of the one year compulsory National Youth Service 
Corps.4  
The pioneer National Director of the scheme was Ahmadu Ali who 
served between 1973 and 1975, while Brigadier General Shuaibu 
                                                           3Obasi N. K., “Nigeria: The Road to National Unity”, in Ajaegbu H. I., Matthew-
Daniel B. J. and Uya O. E. (eds.), Nigeria: A People United, A Future Assured, 
Volume 1, A Compendium of Federal Ministry of Information, Millennium Edition, 
Gabumo Company Publishing Company Limited, 2000, 66. 4MareninOtwin, "Implementing Deployment Policies in the National Youth Service 
Corps of Nigeria", Comparative Political Studies, London: SAGE Publishers, 22 (4):, 
1990, 397-436.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                         P. A. Nwamagyi  
108 
 
Ibrahim is the current Director-General.5 Between 2016 and 2019, 
Major General Suleiman Kazaure served as the Director General until 
his redeployment to the Nigerian Army Resource Centre.6The scheme 
was to serve as better room for renewed spirit of commitment towards 
reconciliation, reconstruction, and rebuilding of the nation. Based on 
the decree No. 24, the goal was to create a fresh mindset of promoting 
the common areas of national unity among the Nigerian youths.7 By the 
operation of the scheme, corps members are posted outside their states 
of origin to work for the collective interests of the nation. By this 
posting, they are expected to mix and inter-mingle with their host 
communities; a people of varying ethno-religious, socio-cultural as well 
as family upbringing and background.  
This inter-ethnic and socio-cultural mingling enables them to learn the 
cultures of the indigenous people in their places of posting. The 
fundamental function of this is to bring about national integration and 
unity through appreciating the cultures and norms of other ethnic 
groups. This has had an economic and political impact by promoting 
peace and national development. Corps members spent three weeks in 
the camp for Orientation in military controlled camps far away from 
family and friends. There are orientation camps in each of the states of 
Nigeria including the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja.8 After posting 
                                                           5Bem Japheth Audu, “Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim and the Reinvigoration of NYSC”, 
10. 6Odeh G. O., “NYSC’s Engagement in the Development of Abuja, 1982-2011”, in 
Rima International Journal of Historical Studies: A Publication of the Department 
of History, Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences, Sokoto State University, Sokoto, 
(1)2, 2018, 8. 7Odeh G. O., “Demilitarizing and Democratizing the Appointment of NYSC Director 
General: Forging Civil-Military Relations”, in CCC Osakwe, OE Tangban, AO Ahmed 
and LO Udeagbala (eds), War, Society and Leadership in Nigeria: Essays in Honour 
of Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim, Kaduna: NDA Publishers, 2020, 19. 8ElemureV.E., “Effectiveness of the National Youth Service Corps Scheme among 
2012-2013 Corps Members in Lagos and Oyo States, Nigeria”, PhD Thesis, Institute 
of Education, University of Ibadan, 2015. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps: 
109 
 
them to their Places of Primary Assignment, the corps members work 
as staff and carry out various community development services for the 
betterment of their host communities, the states and the nation as a 
whole. These series of well-organized orientation programmes brought 
development and growth of the country.  
To qualify for participation in the one-year mandatory youth service, 
Nigerian graduates are not expected be more than 30 years of age at 
the time of graduation. The graduates whose age exceeded 30 years at 
point of graduation are issued with Certificates of Exemption in lieu of 
the Discharge Certificate. The National Youth Service Corps is 
compulsory for every Nigerian graduate unless, of course, they have 
served for more than a year in the military and are above 30 years of 
age as at the age of graduation. Since part-time graduates are not 
allowed to serve, they are given Exclusion Letters. 
Therefore, as a requirement for registration, those who are mobilized 
for service must possess an active email, phone contact, JAMB and 
matriculation number to be able register. Those who received their 
degrees in foreign universities must be sure their institutions are 
approved and accredited. Graduates from non-English speaking 
countries must translate their certificates to Nigerian lingua franca-
English before they upload it.9 Graduates of Nigerian universities are 
not legible for gainful employment in governmental establishments and 
even in most private establishments unless they have served and 
completed the one-year mandatory service. During their active service 
year, the corps members are opportune to learn the people’s total way 
of life in order to properly integrate themselves into their host 
communities for progress national unity, cohesion and socio-economic 
and political development and progress in Nigeria. 
                                                           9Enegwea Gregory and Gabriel Umoden, NYSC: Twenty Years of National Service, 
Lagos: GabumoPublishig Co. Ltd., 1993. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                         P. A. Nwamagyi  
110 
 
When the Gowon military administration introduced the National 
Youth Service Corps in 1973, part of the objectives was to encourage 
the development of common grounds and build ties between Nigerians 
for the unity of Nigerian youths and by extension, all Nigerians. As 
succinctly captured in Decree No.51 of 16 June 1993, the objectives of 
the scheme (paraphrased) include the inculcation of discipline into the 
Nigerian graduates in preparation for service to the nation. National 
service instilled the tradition and culture of hard work and industry. 
They are taught patriotism and loyalty in serving Nigeria in their 
respective places of primary assignments. In addition national service 
is built strong moral tone on Nigerian graduates by learning the higher 
ideals of achievement in the nation in the areas of socio-cultural 
improvement. Another objective is to develop the right attitudes in the 
Nigerian youths through the shared experience they acquired in 
serving and suitable training to make them amenable to spirit of 
cooperation and mobilization for national interest. Other objectives 
include enabling the graduates to acquire the skills and spirit of self-
reliance through self-employment; to make laudable contributions to 
the growth and development of the economy of Nigeria as a nation; to 
build areas of common ties for the unity of the country and national 
integration; to do away with obvious sentiments, societal prejudices 
and ignorance in the minds of many youths about Nigerians from other 
regions and find out first-hand information about the areas of similarity 
between Nigerian ethnic groups and cultures. NYSC also aimed at 
developing the sense of togetherness and corporate existence for the 
purpose building and sustaining a common destiny of all Nigerian 
peoples.10 
                                                           10Obasi N. K., “Nigeria: The Road to National Unity”, in Ajaegbu H. I., Matthew-
Daniel B. J. and Uya O. E. (eds.), Nigeria: A People United, A Future Assured, 
Volume 1, A Compendium of Federal Ministry of Information, Millennium Edition, 
Gabumo Company Publishing Company Limited, 2000, 66. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps: 
111 
 
Corps members are equitably distributed to various states of Nigeria 
including Abuja for effective and efficient use of acquired skills in all 
areas of national interest and needs. Nigerian graduates are given jobs 
in other states of Nigeria outside their states of origin for national 
service. The fact that Nigerian youth graduates carry out the task 
assigned to them and worked together in unity represents Nigerian aim 
for establishing the scheme. Through the one year compulsory service, 
Nigerian youths are exposed to the modes of living of the people in 
different parts of Nigeria and are encouraged to imbibe the spirit of 
ethnic and religious tolerance through accommodating people with 
different religious, cultural and ethnic backgrounds. That corps 
members are encouraged to seek at the end of their one-year national 
service, career employment all over Nigeria is a direct promotion of 
free movement of labor that induced in employees partly through their 
community service experience with other corps members to employ 
more readily and on a permanent basis, qualified Nigerians, 
irrespective of their States of origin.11 
 
NYSC and Dynamics of Community Development Service 
At this point, it is important to examine the dynamics of National Youth 
Service Corps to community development service, national integration 
and unity of Nigeria for socio-economic progress and development. The 
concept community service has been defined differently by different 
people based on their perception and experienced. However, the term 
is generally used to imply any mandatory and voluntary service, unpaid 
or unpaid rendered by an individual, group of people or community for 
the wellbeing, benefits and betterment of the individual and 
thecommunity at any given time without any direct benefit of 
compensation. Community development service is categorized into 
                                                           11Obasi N. K., “Nigeria: The Road to National Unity”, in Ajaegbu H. I., Matthew-
Daniel B. J. and Uya O. E. (eds.), Nigeria: A People United, A Future Assured, 
Volume 1, A Compendium of Federal Ministry of Information, Millennium Edition, 
Gabumo Company Publishing Company Limited, 2000, 66. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                         P. A. Nwamagyi  
112 
 
group community development service, in which corps members use a 
day in a week for group CDS activities. On that day, the groups are not 
expected to attend duties in their places of Primary assignment on CD 
days. Such days are dedicated to the execution of projects and 
programmers that will improve the living conditions of their host 
communities.12 
For personal or individual community development service, the 
projects or programmers executed by the individual corps members in 
their host communities based on community felt-needs. The corps 
members look out for areas where they could make impacts in the 
community. It could include construction projects like building of 
toilets, incinerators, bridges, classrooms, games facilities for schools or 
social projects such as establishment of ICT laboratory, school libraries, 
extramural classes, campaigns, charity work, vocational training for 
empowerment of unemployed youths in the community. Collaborative 
community development service is the type that the NYSC scheme 
partners with National and Non-Governmental Organizations and other 
establishments to implement development programmes.13There has 
been attempt to distinguished community development service from 
other types of volunteer services. This is because community 
development service often is not done on a volunteering ground, but 
mandatory basis in many occasions. Community development service is 
not always without benefits to those carrying out the service.  
The dynamics of community development service is such that it brings 
personal benefits and also fulfills citizenship obligation and 
requirements. In addition, community service is sometimes a 
                                                           12NYSC, ABC of Community Development Service, A Publication of the National 
Youth Service Corps, NYSC Community Development Service and Special Projects, 
May 2015, iv.  13 NYSC, ABC of Community Development Service, A Publication of the National 
Youth Service Corps, NYSC Community Development Service and Special Projects, 
May 2015, iv. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps: 
113 
 
substitution for criminal justice, sanctions, requirements of institutions 
of learning such as schools and or class as requisites for the 
qualification of certain benefits within the institutions or community 
where the service is been carried out. As a background, it is imperative 
to notes that community development service is a duty carried out by 
an individual, group of persons or the entire community of people who 
shares common interest. Community development service is often 
carried out for the benefit of the people or inhabitants of the 
community and its institutions. Community development service is 
often mandated to meet certain school requirements. This could 
beclass service as a condition for graduation. 
 
Borehole Renovated by 2012 Batch ‘B’ and ‘C’ and 2013 Batch ‘A’ 
Corps in Indira 
 
 
 
Source: Borehole CDS Projects Executed by 2012 Batch ‘B’ and ‘C’ and 
2013 Batch ‘A’, Indira Sub-Zone, Mangu Local Government, Plateau 
State, Nigeria.  
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                         P. A. Nwamagyi  
114 
 
The figure shows 2012 Batch ‘B’, Batch ‘C’ and 2013 Batch ‘A’ corps 
members constructing a borehole at Gindiri Sub-Zone, Mangu Local 
Government, Plateau State, Nigeriain 2013. In their community 
development service projects, the corps members executed various 
services such as sweeping and cleaning of Gindiri and Pyem Markets on 
weekly basis. They also organized tutorial lessons for WAEC and JAMB 
candidates for 2013 exams.14 These projects and community 
development programs contributed significantly to the development of 
the host community. 
In Nigeria, more than the required community service, religious 
organizations stress volunteer service to the host community for the 
wellbeing of the nation as a whole. The Nigerian Christian Corps 
Fellowship (NCCF) carried out lots of community cum mission works 
for the purpose of bettering the lives of various communities in Nigeria. 
Part of the activities they engaged in include organizing varying 
 programmes for children, such as hosting the Red Cross blood drives. 
Through these community development services, the community and 
religious organizations such as churches benefitted directly. Corps 
members in collaboration with churches organize non-profit programs 
to help the general public. These roles exposed the Batches ‘A’ and ‘B’ 
2012 Corps Members to national service relating to conduct of election. 
Just like in developed societies such as the United States of America, 
Canada, Europe and Australia, in Nigeria community development 
service is also an alternative for various criminal punishment the in 
place of incarceration. For example, the Nigerian Prisons Bill, which 
was signed by President Muhammadu Buhari in December, 2018 
brought with it novelties of non-custodial service such as community 
service probation and parole. In like manner, in the United Kingdom, 
community service is recognized as a form of compulsory unpaid work 
                                                           14 Borehole CDS Projects Executed by 2012 Batch ‘B’ and ‘C’ and 2013 Batch ‘A’, 
Gindiri Sub-Zone, Mangu Local Government, Plateau State, Nigeria, 2013. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps: 
115 
 
encapsulating up to 300 hours of activities. Some institutions give 
incentive to the students or employees carrying out such community 
development services. This is true in Nigeria, as corps members are 
paid stipend for the one year mandatory service rendered to the 
Nigeria. Institutions, government and non-governmental organizations 
provide employees with valuable job opportunities to work together 
and participate in community development service.15 
  
NYSC: National Integration And Unity In Nigeria 
NYSC is arguably one of the most visionary programmes in furtherance 
of Nigeria’s unity. Its primary objective has been to inculcate in 
Nigerian youths attitudes of mind acquired through shared experience 
and suitable training that would make them more amenable to 
mobilisation in the national interest.16National integration has been 
defined differently by different scholars. One of such definitions sees it 
as a process by which states within a nation willingly agreed to mingle, 
merge and mix with their neighbors for socio-economic, political, 
military, security and diplomatic reasons. National integration is a 
phenomenon through which territorial state systems intensify their 
interactions based on their common interests and collective good in 
order to create new forms of organization, co-existing with traditional 
forms of state-led organization at the national level.  
It is a process by which states within a particular country intensify 
their level of interaction for economic, security, political, or social and 
cultural issues. In other word, national integration is the joining of 
individual states within a nation into a larger whole. The level of 
                                                           15NYSC, ABC of Community Development Service, A Publication of the National 
Youth Service Corps, NYSC Community Development Service and Special Projects, 
May 2015, iv. 16 Obasi N. K., “Nigeria: The Road to National Unity”, in Ajaegbu H. I., Matthew-
Daniel B. J. and Uya O. E. (eds.), Nigeria: A People United, A Future Assured, 
Volume 1, A Compendium of Federal Ministry of Information, Millennium Edition, 
Gabumo Company Publishing Company Limited, 2000, 66. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                         P. A. Nwamagyi  
116 
 
integration depends on the willingness and commitment of 
independent states within the nation to promote their common 
interest.17 Since 1960 when Nigeria gained political independence from 
their erstwhile colonialists, there have been several efforts by the 
various past governments to foster ethnic cohesion and unity for the 
development of the nation in the socio-economic and political facets of 
the nation. The relationships helped the graduates developed 
interactions that broke societal stereotypes militating against 
progressive unity and development in Nigeria. The interactions 
facilitated better opinions and viewpoints around different topics and 
issues that make Nigeria a diverse people.  
The wrong beliefs that all people with a certain features are the same 
were corrected. This is because stereotypes always reveal themselves 
in swift and quick judgments mainly off the visible and practicable 
characteristics. In breaking all stereotypes, community service helps 
participants and the beneficiaries to realize that not everyone falls into 
these pre-conceived ideas. Along with breaking down stereotypes, 
community service work can assist people in realizing that those they 
are helping and working with are no different from themselves. This 
realization leads to empathizing with other people and also learn to 
understand the needs and motivations of others, especially those who 
live different lives from our own, is an important part of living a 
productive life. This leads to a view of humanity that can help a person 
stay free of biased opinions of others and can lead to a more diverse 
and ultimately more productive and thought provoking life. 
 
                                                           17 Haas Ernst B., ‘The Study of Regional Integration: Reflections on the Joy and 
Anguish of Pre-theorizing’, 1971, 3-44; Leon N. Lindberg and Stuart A. Scheingold 
(eds.), Regional Integration: Theory and Research. Cambridge, MA: Harvard 
University Press; Carr, E.H. The Twenty Years Crisis, 1919-1939. Macmillan, 1978, 
230-231. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps: 
117 
 
National unity is a spirit of oneness, togetherness and cooperation in 
the interest of the nation. National is first and above personal, 
grouping, party, regional and or sectional, ethnic and religious interest. 
Unity must be expressed in words and actions; it is wishful thinking 
and lips service. National unity means sacrificing personal interest for 
the interest of all. The NYSC has been very useful in Nigeria’s quest for 
national unity. This is because through the Scheme, Nigerians that 
participated in the national service developed a greater sense of 
belonging and cohesion.18 Over the years, the NYSC was used as a 
strategy to deploy graduates to work in other states of the federation 
different from their states of origin and away from their geographical, 
ethnic and cultural backgrounds.  
Through the scheme, Nigerian youths were organized to work in 
groups as representatives in various parts of the country and by so 
doing they were exposed to the modes of living of the people in 
different states and regions of the country. This removes all the 
prejudices and eliminates various forms of ignorance about the country 
by confirming directly the numerous similarities among Nigerians of all 
ethnic groups. In the past 48 years of its operations, about 4.7 million 
Nigerian graduates have participated in the Scheme through its 
numerous programmes.19 
 
National Youth Service Corps and National Development  
Community Development Service requires choosing the right strategy 
in order to achieve fruitful result and outcome. Those seeking to engage 
in community development service must be able to form formidable 
associations. The civilian population should develop a relentless desire 
and aptitude for community development service without the direct 
involvement of the government in order to address the socio-economic 
                                                           18Obasi N. K., “Nigeria: The Road to National Unity”, 66. 19 Ibrahim Shuaibu, Director General, National Youth Service Corps, Agency Report, 
August 15, 2019. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                         P. A. Nwamagyi  
118 
 
needs of the people in the communities. They should be able to 
understand the root causes of challenges confronting the community 
and initiate projects aimed at addressing such problems. The 
independence and autonomy of the intermediate bodies in society such 
as schools, press, business, and the arts is important for effective 
development of the community and the nation. Communities should 
have the right and autonomy to organize, and manage community 
development service groups and organizations for the betterment of 
their societies. Community service is therefore a tool for preparing and 
empowering the people to help build a better society where peace and 
unity is feasible. This will further create new employment 
opportunities and bring about better lifestyle to avoid destructive 
decisions. 
Many young university and polytechnic graduates who get involved in 
community service through the National Youth Service Corps come out 
with better perceptions of their worldview. Through their participation 
in community development service they are prepared for national 
service and development of their respective communities, states and 
the nation as a whole. For example, the 2012 Batch ‘B’ Corps Members 
that served in Plateau State, Mangu Local Government Area and Gindiri 
sub-zone participated in community development service. They were 
able to rehabilitate a borehole for the benefit of their host-community, 
the entire Gindiri District.  
They also engaged in the weekly sweeping and cleaning of the Gindiri 
market, which helped to promote marketing, trade and commerce for 
the development of the economy. Their service gave them better 
understanding of the diversity of Nigeria. Community development 
services enable these corps members to appreciate the culture and 
norms of the people of Gindiri thereby breaking the societal 
stereotypes. This makes them responsible citizens and positioned them 
for better national service and development. Therefore, participating in 
the community development service projects by the 2012 Batch ‘Corps 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps: 
119 
 
members made them to interact with one another and build personal 
relationships across cultural divides. 
Each community development service project gives insightful 
knowledge and experience to the participants in various areas. In some 
instances, participants internalize the information they found insightful 
and use in the future. Community service is valuable to the recipients 
and also beneficial to those serving. Their service brings positive 
changes to the society for a better Nigeria. Institutions of learning such 
as schools always take students on community service projects to help 
them learn how their individual actions affect the well-being of the 
public. Community development service helps participants to discover 
the effects of their serve in fostering the public view of a purpose 
service. After serving in various community projects those involved in 
the service may learn that for a long period of time, they have an 
advantage in real-world experience.  
In other words, the practical experience gained in community 
development service positions the participants well ahead of others in 
the society. Eventually, the skills and knowledge acquired and obtained 
while working with the community becomes useful and applicable in 
future areas of work. Community development service also increases a 
participant's social capital and connectivity because most community 
service opportunities allow others to interact and work with other 
individuals. This service therefore, helps volunteers network and 
connect with others towards a common goal in national development. 
The people of any society gain mostly from their community service 
projects particularly whenever they volunteer their time, energy and 
resources to help those they have never met or interacted with. This 
express and direct contact gives people the opportunity to view the 
reality of life from a different point of view and reconsider the opinions 
they formed about people from other regions, cultures and ethnic 
background. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                         P. A. Nwamagyi  
120 
 
Religious bodies and other organizations promote community 
development service because they are called to serve people. Christians 
for instance, see the importance of community service to show God's 
love and to further spread the gospel. Some non-governmental (NGOs) 
community service organizations were founded by Christians seeking 
to put their beliefs into practice. Aside the benefits of community 
service to society as a whole, community service have personal benefits 
of serving to the individual and or group doing the service. Community 
service gives the participants the avenue to ponder on the impactful 
difference they are making in societal development. Community service 
gives the participants greater understanding of the project in the 
community and the impact of their contributions towards the needy. It 
exposes those who serve to different people, personalities, 
environments and circumstances.  
 
Criticisms of the NYSC Scheme 
In recent years, some people have expressed mixed feelings as to 
whether or not the reasons for community development service have 
been justified. To some, community development service is a waste of 
time, resources and energy. Some of those who held this position 
believe that one should rather commit his or her time to national 
service for the purpose of bringing benefits to the individual carrying 
out the service.  
The recent challenges of insecurity in the country have raised questions 
concerning the relevance of sustaining the National Youth Service 
program. To some, this as a matter of urgency calls for dialogue in the 
best interest of socio-economic development of Nigeria. Preemptive 
measures must be taken in order to avoid future incidents of violence.  
The integrity and nobility of the program must be upheld by addressing 
the aforementioned issues. It also appears that in spite of the laudable 
objectives of establishing the scheme, religious bigotry, ethnic jingoism 
and regional sentiments still beclouds the nation’s political landscape 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps: 
121 
 
thereby hindering the emergence of credible leaders that will steer the 
affairs of Nigeria putting national interest above sectional, regional, 
religious and ethnic interest. 
In developed climes such as the United States of America, 
educational jurisdictions demand that students perform community 
service for certain number of hours to qualify for graduation from high 
school and other educational institutions. For instance, in some high 
schools in Washington DC, students must complete at least 200 hours 
of community service to qualify for a diploma certificate. In other 
instances, community service is differentiated from school service-
learning in some districts in Washington, including Seattle Public 
Schools, which requires that students demonstrate that their service-
learning work contributed to their education.20  
 
Conclusion 
The significance of National Youth Service Corps Scheme to community 
development service, national integration and unity of Nigeria cannot 
be over-emphasized. The scheme provided solid ground for national 
interaction between the Nigerian youths. This provided a platform for 
cross-cultural relations necessary for national development. After the 
civil war in 1970, there was high level of suspicion and distrust among 
Nigerians. For Nigeria to remain an indivisible and indissoluble nation, 
one and the same nation, there is need to do away with such unhealthy 
feeing of hatred and distrust. Community development service is a 
programme undertaken by all corps members throughout the service 
year. As one of the four cardinal programmes of the scheme, CDS 
enables corps members to register their physical presence in their host 
communities. Furthermore, opportunities are given for harnessing the 
creativity of Corps members for the rapid development of the host 
community with the active participation of the community members.  
                                                           20Kirk-Green Anthony and Douglass Rimmer, Nigeria since 1970: A Political and 
Economic Outline, London: Hodder and Stoughton, 1981.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                         P. A. Nwamagyi  
122 
 
Bibliography 
 
Bem Japheth Audu, “Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim and the Reinvigoration 
of NYSC”, in CCC Osakwe, OE Tangban, AO Ahmed and LO 
Udeagbala (eds), War, Society and Leadership in Nigeria: Essays 
in Honour of Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim, Kaduna: NDA 
Publishers, 2020, 4. 
Borehole CDS Projects Executed by 2012 Batch ‘B’ and ‘C’ and 2013 
Batch ‘A’, Gindiri Sub-Zone, Mangu Local Government, Plateau 
State, Nigeria, 2013. 
 
Elemure V.E., “Effectiveness of the National Youth Service Corps 
Scheme among 2012-2013 Corps Members in Lagos and Oyo 
States, Nigeria”, PhD Thesis, Institute of Education, University of 
Ibadan, 2015. 
Enegwea Gregory and Gabriel Umoden, NYSC: Twenty Years of National 
Service, Lagos: Gabumo Publishig Co. Ltd., 1993. 
 
Haas Ernst B., ‘The Study of Regional Integration: Reflections on the Joy 
and Anguish of Pre-theorizing’, 1971. 
Ibrahim Shuaibu, Director General, National Youth Service Corps, 
Agency Report, August 15, 2019. 
Kirk-Green Anthony and Douglass Rimmer, Nigeria since 1970: A 
Political and Economic Outline, London: Hodder and Stoughton, 
1981.  
Leon N. Lindberg and Stuart A. Scheingold (eds.), Regional Integration: 
Theory and Research. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University 
Press; Carr, E.H. The Twenty Years Crisis, 1919-1939, 
Macmillan, 1978. 
MareninOtwin, "Implementing Deployment Policies in the National Youth 
Service Corps of Nigeria", Comparative Political Studies, London: 
SAGE Publishers, 22 (4):, 1990, 397-436.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps: 
123 
 
NYSC, ABC of Community Development Service, A Publication of the 
National Youth Service Corps, NYSC Community Development 
Service and Special Projects, May 2015.  
Obasi N. K., “Nigeria: The Road to National Unity”, in Ajaegbu H. I., 
Matthew-Daniel B. J. and Uya O. E. (eds.), Nigeria: A People 
United, A Future Assured, Volume 1, A Compendium of Federal 
Ministry of Information, Millennium Edition, Gabumo Company 
Publishing Company Limited, 2000. 
Odeh G. O., “Demilitarizing and Democratizing the Appointment of 
NYSC Director General: Forging Civil-Military Relations”, in CCC 
Osakwe, OE Tangban, AO Ahmed and LO Udeagbala (eds), War, 
Society and Leadership in Nigeria: Essays in Honour of Brigadier 
General Shuaibu Ibrahim, Kaduna: NDA Publishers, 2020. 
Odeh G. O., “NYSC’s Engagement in the Development of Abuja, 1982-
2011”, in Rima International Journal of Historical Studies: A 
Publication of the Department of History, Faculty of Arts and 
Social Sciences, Sokoto State University, Sokoto, (1)2, 2018. 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                Helen Noor 
124 
 
 88 88    
    NYSC and the Challenges of National Integration 
 
 
Helen Noor 
 
 
Introduction 
The effort of achieving national integration among the various ethnic, 
religious, political and socio-economic groups in Nigeria have remained 
a difficult national challenge since the amalgamation of the northern 
and southern protectorate in 1914. This is particularly baffling 
considering the efforts of all government regimes since independence 
towards national integration, the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) 
is one of such programs, yet the gap between the various groupings 
seems wider as the nation is still plagued with ethnic rivalry, religious 
intolerance, political exclusion, quest for self-determination, power 
sharing and violent agitations, to mention a few.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the Challenges of National Integration 
125 
 
This paper examines the challenges militating against national 
integration in Nigeria using the NYSC as a tool for the study. The 
findings revealed that the NYSC scheme has come a long way in 
promoting national integration in Nigeria. However, national 
integration remains a difficult task due to some factors such as 
insecurity: the continuous attacks carried out by Boko Haram, banditry, 
kidnapping, continuous farmers/herders clash and other militia 
agitating for self-rule and autonomy are bane to national integration in 
Nigeria.  
 
The Concept of National Integration 
Flip Lindo refers to integration as the process of settlement, 
interaction with the host society, and social change that follows as a 
result of migration. From the moment these migrated populace arrive 
in a host society, they must “secure a place” for themselves. Seeking a 
place for them is a very literal task: Migrants must find a home, a job 
and income, schools for their children, and access to health facilities. 
They must find a place in a social and cultural sense as well, as they 
have to establish cooperation and interaction with other individuals 
and groups get to know and use institutions of the host society, and 
become recognized and accepted in their cultural specificity. Yet, this 
is a two-way process. The host society does not remain unaffected. 
The size and composition of the population change, and new 
institutional arrangements come into existence to accommodate 
immigrants’ political, social, and cultural needs1. 
 Clare Ferguson in his work titled ‘’promoting social integration’’ 
defines social integration as the process of promoting the values, 
relations and institutions that enable all people to participate in social, 
economic and political life on the basis of equality of rights and 
opportunity, equity and dignity. Social integration describes the 
                                                           1F. Lindo, The Concept of Integration as an Analytical Tool and as a Policy Concept 
in Rinus Penninx Integration Pocessesand Policies in Europe(University of 
Amsterdam. 2016). 120 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                Helen Noor 
126 
 
process of building institutions that promote a society for all on the 
principles of social justice.2  
Fatile and Adejuwon define national integration as the process 
whereby several desperate groups within a given territorial entity are 
united together or co-operate under conditions which do not appear to 
permit satisfaction of the system needs in any other way. They 
concluded by stating that the goal of national integration is an 
arrangement in a plural society where component parts are reasonably 
contented in the polity vis-a-vis equity and justice in resource 
allocation and access to equal opportunities. It could also be stated that 
it is the reduction of cultural and regional tensions and discontinuities 
in the process of creating a prosperous homogenous political 
community.3  
Morrison and Stevenson  also defines national integration as the degree 
of cohesion that binds members of social systems together, and is 
generally thought of in terms of the values, institutions and 
communications which facilitate escalating sequences of social contact, 
cooperation and consensus.4 
M. Oni, and A. Ogundinwin, refers to National integration as the process 
of unifying a multi-ethnic country, not necessarily into a single-ethnic 
one but into a united indivisible entity where primordial affiliations are 
exempted or made secondary for the greater good of the united 
                                                           2 C. Ferguson, Report commissioned by the United Nations Department of 
Economic and Social Affairs (UNDESA) for the Expert Group Meeting on Promoting 
Social Integration, Helsinki, Finland, 8-10 July 2008 3 J.  Fatile, and K. Adejuwon, Ethnicity and National Integration in Nigeria:The post 
Colonial Experience, In 
 A. Osuntokun,  A.  Ukaogo, and A. Akachi, (eds). Nigerian Studies- Readings in 
History, Politics, Society and Culture. (New Jersey: Goldmine and Jacob Publishers, 
2010). 35-40. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the Challenges of National Integration 
127 
 
country.5It can also be seen as the building of a national state of 
different social, economic, religious, ethnic and geographical elements 
which entails the conversion of diffused and unorganized sentiments 
on nationalism into a spirit of citizenship through the creation of state 
institutions that can translate into policies and programs and 
aspirations of the citizenry6. 
In this light, national integration can be defined as a deliberate effort by 
a government to create Policies that will promote unity and 
cooperation among citizens to foster national integration and 
development. This is to reduce ethnic tension, suspicious among ethnic 
minority, and acceptance of a central system that works for all.   
    
The Need for National Integration 
The Nigerian civil war was a catalyst that rocked the emergent Nigerian 
state from 1967 to 1970. The 30 months civil war was preceded by a 
configuration of pre-independence and post-independence crises. The 
Origins of the civil war could be located in a complexity of factors 
ranging from the remote which includes remote factors such as the 
regional election crisis in Western Nigeria in 1965; the Tiv riots of 
1964; the Federal Elections of 1964; the killing of the Igbos living in 
Northern Nigeria from May to September 1966, the structural 
imbalance of the Nigerian federation; and, most importantly, the 
asymmetrical distribution of power among the various ethnic and 
geopolitical groups;  as well as the military coups d’état of January 15, 
and July 29, 1966.  
 
 
 
                                                           5 M. Oni, and A. Ogundinwin, Four Republics: A Critical Discourse of the Culture of 
Political Parties, In Osuntokun A. A. Ukaogo, O. Akachi, (eds). Nigerian Studies- 
Readings in History, Politics, Society and Culture.(New Jersey:  
Goldmine and Jacob Publishers, 2010). 28-30. 6"A Cup of Tea From Yakubu Gowon". All Africa. 22 October 2012. Retrieved 28  
December 2015 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                Helen Noor 
128 
 
The Challenges of NYSC in National Integration  
The NYSC program has been met with criticism from sections of the 
country. A few youth carrying out the NYSC program have been killed 
in the regions where they were sent due to religious, ethnic or political 
violence. Corps members also face difficulties in areas of attack by 
hoodlums, lack of accommodation, portable water, and cultural 
intolerance. Besides the issue of security, many have questioned the 
continued importance of the NYSC program, below are some of the 
challenges the scheme faces in its pursuit of national integration.  
 
Political Threats and Insecurity 
Elections in Nigeria have triggered series of political violence, which at 
times lead to the killing and displacement of corps members. These 
unfortunate events send a bad signal to the populace rather than 
national integration philosophy of the scheme.  Politicians are 
desperate to score cheap political points even more so are their 
supporters. The presidential election of 2011 was greeted with 
violence and while reacting on the killings of these patriots in national 
service, Wole Soyinka condemned it as a premeditated act. He stated 
that I was really shocked by the note of satisfaction, almost sadistic 
reaction at the killings… There was always a kind of glory in what was 
always going on, which made me wonder why we all call ourselves 
Nigerians. It makes me wonder whether we all have the same project 
in mind when we go to polls, or whether we all have the same 
destination in mind, when we embark on events. A female corps 
member who said she escaped miraculously told tales of how she and 
other corps members on electoral duty were forced to thumbprint for 
a particular party in Giade Local Government Area of Bauchi State, 
tortured and even fondled by the irate protesters, and how eleven of 
them were butchered like animals. The Boko Haram sect, backed by 
their bomb-blast terrorism in Northern Nigeria has practically 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the Challenges of National Integration 
129 
 
planted the psychology of fear among parents and Nigerian graduates 
that are waiting for NYSC deployment.7 
The problem of disunity among Nigerian peoples and groupings do not 
seem to emanate from lack of constitutional, political, cultural, 
educational and religious commitment to national integration and 
unity. Indeed, there have been commitments by successive government 
administrations to maintain and uphold the unity of the country. 
However, the problem seems to lie with the manner in which these 
policies and programmes have been implemented by the ruling elites8. 
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Scheme was introduced in 
1973 to aid national integration in Nigeria as stated in Decree No. 24 of 
22 nd May, 1973 (supplanted by Act CAP N84 LFN in 2004). According to 
the Act, the scheme is to among other things, develop common ties 
among Nigerian youths and promote national unity and integration” 
(NYSC, 2004). It was hoped that the scheme would assist in addressing 
problems of ethnic loyalties, mutual group suspicion and distrust, 
which have eaten deep into the fabrics of Nigerian society. The Scheme 
is implemented such that fresh tertiary institution graduates are 
deployed to serve the nation in states or communities other than their 
states of origin with the intention of broadening their socio-cultural 
orientation and to instill the virtue of tolerance.  
Lack of Equal Opportunity to Employment and Empowerment Scheme 
Employments are not given to youths based on merit; a lot of sentiment 
is involved when carrying out recruitments like status, tribe, religion 
and other factors which have caused resentment. The major problem is 
the un-relenting lobbying by Nigerians (particularly the well-placed in 
the society) for their children and wards to serve in selected states, 
urban areas and places where the corps members have contacts to 
                                                           7 C. Okafor   J. K. ANI “The National Youth Service Corps Programme and Growing 
Security Threat in Nigeria”Africa’s public service delivery & performance review, 
Vol. 2 , No2,( 2014), 150. 8 P. Udende and A.A. Salau,  National Youth Service Corps Scheme and the Quest 
for National Unity and Development: A Public Relations Perspective, University of 
Ilorin, Ilorin, Nigeria. 2012. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                Helen Noor 
130 
 
secure lucrative jobs after service. Secondly some states still operate 
discriminatory employment polices to the disadvantage of non-
indigenes. The exposure of the corps members to open practice of 
nepotism by their employers dampens the zeal of service and leads the 
corps members to openly question the issues of national integration9. 
 
Geographical threats 
Parents of prospective corps members as well as serving corps 
members might be afraid of letting their wards go to some northern 
parts of Nigeria with a history of recurrent violent attacks from Islamist 
terrorists.  
 
Conclusion 
All the efforts by the various successive governments to overcome the 
challenges of national integration have not achieved the desired 
outcome between and within the different entities that make up Nigeria 
for more than sixty years of independence. This is a call for a national 
change in the approach, towards national integration; we also need our 
leaders to be sincere in their quest for national integration. It is evident 
that structural, constitutional and policy initiatives cannot promote 
national integration without appreciable change in the value 
orientation (mindset) and material conditions of the Nigerian citizens. 
National integration will remain a fantasy without appreciable change 
in the mindset that blames colonialism for the challenges of national 
integration.  
The role of the National Orientation Agency (NOA) in the process of 
national integration is very important, the Agency should be well 
funded to enable it realize its mandate through a value reorientation 
programme that focuses on fostering national integration. For the 
change in the mindset of Nigerians to be attained and sustained; the 
problem of social inequality must be addressed; there has to be an 
appreciable and corresponding change in the area of wealth 
                                                           9 G. Enegwea and G. Umoden, NYSC: Twenty years of natuial service Gabumo 
publisher, Yaba  Lagos, 1993.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the Challenges of National Integration 
131 
 
distribution among citizens. The security of lives and properties should 
be a high priority.   The above challenges are not exhaustive but if 
addressed will definitely enhance the prospects for national integration 
in Nigeria.  
The eradication of Illiteracy and poverty should receive adequate 
attention. This will free majority of the Nigerians from the 
manipulations of self-serving political elite that have continuously 
exploited them against their political opponents each time they lose 
elections or do not achieve their political aspirations thereby creating 
the rhetoric of disintegration. The study, therefore, recommends 
careful implementation and regular evaluation of the scheme to make it 
possible for it to achieve most of its set goals, national integration being 
the topmost. Corrupt NYSC officials should be flushed out of the system 
by replacing them with people of high integrity. Above all the NYSC 
alone is not able to foster the kind of integration that is expected to 
cause significant change in Nigeria without the help of other agencies 
with the aims and objectives. 
  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                Helen Noor 
132 
 
Bibliography 
 
 "A Cup of Tea From Yakubu Gowon". AllAfrica. 22 October 2012. 
Accessed March 17 2020. 
Enegwea G and Umoden G, NYSC: Twenty years of natural service 
Gabumo Publisher, Yaba  Lagos, 1993.  
Fatile J, and Adejuwon K, Ethnicity and National Integration in Nigeria: 
The post Colonial Experience, In Osuntokun A and Akachi A, 
(eds). Nigerian Studies- Readings in History, Politics, Society and 
Culture. (New Jersey: Goldmine and Jacob Publishers, 2010). 
35-40. 
Ferguson,C.  Report commissioned by the United Nations Department 
of Economic and Social Affairs (UNDESA) for the Expert Group 
Meeting on Promoting Social Integration, Helsinki, Finland, 8-
10 July 2008 
Lindo, F. The Concept of Integration as an Analytical Tool and as a Policy 
Concept in Rinus Penninx Integration PocessesandPolicies in 
Europe(University of Amsterdam. 2016). 
Okafor C  J. K ANI J. K, ‘The National Youth Service Corps Programme 
and Growing Security Threat in Nigeria’, Africa’s Development 
Watch Vol2 No.2, 2014. 159. 
Otwin, M.  "Implementing Deployment Policies in the National Youth 
Service Corps of Nigeria". Comparative Political Studies. London: 
SAGE Publishers. 22 (4)397–436.Accessed March 17, 2020. 
 doi:10.1177/0010414090022004002 
Uche E, ‘Nigeria and the Challenges of National Unity’ International E-
Journal of Advances in Education, Vol. VI, Issue 16, April, 2020 
Udende P and Salau A.A, National Youth Service Corps Scheme and the 
Quest for National Unity and Development: A Public Relations 
Perspective, University of Ilorin, Ilorin, Nigeria. 2012. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and Its Contribution to National Integration 
133 
 
    99 99    
    The NYSC and Its Contribution to National Integration     
 
Suleiman Bilal Ishaq 
 
 
Introduction 
Nigeria is a multi-ethnic, multi-lingual and multi religious nation and 
sadly all these diversities have impacted adversely on her socio-
political existence. Even before independence, the deep seated division 
that have manifested among the different ethnic nationalities is worth 
mentioning. More so, the events of 1966-1970 called to question the 
unity and continued existence of Nigeria as an ethnically segmented 
nation. The Federal Military Government led by General Yakubu Gowon 
(rtd.) established the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) programme 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                 S. B. Ishaq 
134 
 
as a means of achieving national integration in the face of mutual 
suspicion and hostility.1 
National development is central to government planning and activities. 
However it cannot thrive especially in heterogeneous nations if there is 
no peace or national integration. In Nigeria, the need for unity and 
curbing of all centrifugal forces immediately after the civil war led to 
the introduction of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) through 
Decree No. 24 of 22nd May, 1973. Therefore, the NYSC scheme was 
established as an instrument for national reconstruction, reconciliation 
and rehabilitation, after the 30- month Nigerian civil war. The 
unfortunate antecedents in the nation’s history necessitated the 
establishment of the NYSC. The Federal Government made it crystal 
clear that the Scheme was established "with a view to the proper 
encouragement and development of common ties among the youths of 
Nigeria and the promotion of national unity"2 
The heterogeneous nature of Nigeria and the events preceding the 
introduction of NYSC have elicited an avalanche of arguments for and 
against the continued existence of the Scheme. With a plethora of 
ethnic, religious and political crises that currently pervade the nation, 
reservations have been expressed on the effectiveness of the NYSC in 
facilitating the much needed integration as envisaged in the 
establishing Act. The NYSC has remained on the headlines of national 
dailies in Nigeria given that some parts of Nigeria have gradually 
slipped into structural anarchy on account of insurgency and banditry; 
while in the South, militancy and kidnapping hold sway.3  
                                                           1F.A. Aremu , “National Youth Service Corps Programme and the Quest for 
National Integration: Issues for Policy Consideration”, Journal of Management and 
Social Sciences, Vol.7 No.1 (2018). 279-296. 2F.A. Aremu , “National Youth Service Corps Programme… 3F.A. Aremu , “National Youth Service Corps Programme… 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and Its Contribution to National Integration 
135 
 
 Over 40 years after its establishment, security challenges are 
threatening the existence of the NYSC scheme. The fear of corps 
members being posted to volatile states became worrisome. Insecurity 
and insurgency have created fears that the NYSC Scheme might have 
outlived its relevance. Indeed, the relevance of this all important 
programme was called to question with the pronouncement by the 
House of Representatives on Tuesday, July 3, 2012, barring the NYSC 
from posting corps members to volatile states in the northern parts of 
the country.4 
 
The Concept of National Integration 
Nigeria is bedevilled by a myriad of problems which, despite its oil 
wealth, inhibit its development and even threaten its continued 
existence as a sovereign state. The country is a conglomeration of 
diverse nationalities, ethnic and linguistic entities “under a single 
territorial and institutional framework”5. According to Shona6 national 
integration is the consciousness of a common identity amongst the 
citizens of a country. This means that though people belong to different 
religions and regions and speak different languages they take 
cognizance of the fact that they are one. The significance of this 
consciousness in building a strong and prosperous nation cannot be 
overemphasized7 .  
National integration and unity in a country is different from the kind of 
oneness that comes from racial and cultural similarity. However, it 
                                                           4 O. Adedayo, Nigeria: NYSC - Trudging On, 37 Years After. Daily Independent, 18 
July. 5C. Agbodike, Federal Character Principle and National Integration, In K. Amuwo et 
al (eds), Federalism and Poltical Restructuring in Nigeria. (Ibadan: Spectrum Books 
Limited, 1982).177 – 190. 6C. Agbodike, Federal Character Principle and National Integration… 7A. Egunyomi,. The National Youth Service Corps: A Bridge to Nationalism in 
Nigeria. Retrieved from https://www.cfr.org/blog/national-youth-service-corps-
bridge-nationalism-nigeria. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                 S. B. Ishaq 
136 
 
depicts unity in diversity. National integration mechanisms in Nigeria 
include, among others, Federal unity schools, the federal character 
principle, relocation of the federal capital territory to Abuja considered 
to be the center of the country, revenue sharing formula/fiscal 
federalism and the NYSC programme. The Federal Character Principle 
was initiated by the Federal Government of Nigeria as a policy 
framework to achieve fair and effective representation of the different 
federating units of the country in positions of power, status and 
influence8.  
The principle was given the legal back up as it was enshrined in 1979 
Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria with the goal to 
accommodate the diverse ethno-religious and geographical shades in 
the decision-making, socio-political and economic apparatuses of the 
state9. The rationale behind the policy was to foster peace, unity, equity 
in the distribution of the common wealth of the nation and ensure even 
development by adequately integrating less advantaged states in the 
affairs of the country. However, the application of this policy has been 
called to question by the activities of Ministries, Departments and 
Agencies (MDAs) and other public institutions on issues of recruitment, 
promotion etc.10 
Some Nigerians are of the view that this policy engenders mutual 
mistrust and tend to breed instability as people continuously cry of 
marginalization. It also brings about ‘square pegs in round holes’ as it 
does not encourage merit.11 An important historical programme 
through which this unity has been pursued is the National Youth 
                                                           8J.A. Ayoade, Nigeria:Positive Pessimism and Negative Optimism. A Paper 
delivered at the Faculty of Social Sciences, University of Ibadan. 9A.B. Adeosun, “Federal Character Principle and National Integration: A Critical 
Appraisal”. International Journal of Politics and Good Governance, Vol2, No.2: 1-
13. 10A.B. Adeosun, “Federal Character Principle and National Integration… 11A.B. Adeosun, “Federal Character Principle and National Integration… 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and Its Contribution to National Integration 
137 
 
Service Programme (NYSC). Nigeria is a very vast country both in 
population and landmass, and indeed the most populous black nation 
in the world, with an exceptionally large land mass.  
The religious, social and cultural diversities that define the Nigerian 
nation have constituted a huge challenge to the country’s search for 
unity. General Yakubu Gowon during the formal inauguration of NYSC 
on June 4, 1973 stated that; If Nigeria is to make rapid progress on all 
fronts internally, and if she is to make her marks on the continent of 
Africa, and indeed, in the comity of nations, her youths must be fully 
mobilized and be prepared to offer willingly and without asking for 
rewards in return, their best in the service of their nation at all times.12 
The argument that no meaningful development can be achieved in a 
state of rancour and acrimony is the rationale behind the National 
Youth Service programme. By 2013, an estimated total of 2,000 
Nigerian young graduates drawn from across the states of the 
federation were deployed to the FCT. This suggests that virtually all the 
tribes in the country are properly represented in the FCT. These young 
men and women lived with the FCT indigenes learning their way of life, 
eating their local food, adopting their dress code, inter-marrying with 
them etc. Marriage between corps members and indigenes fashions out 
great bond/cord of relationship that spans ages, thereby limiting 
chances of hostility among Nigerians.  
The elimination of every form of racial, ethnic or religious impediments 
or barriers to the free and unbridled interaction among Nigerians has 
remained a huge task. Often people have very strong feelings for their 
own religion and language and oppose those of others. Such primordial 
feelings culminate in strife/clashes between different sects, religions, 
tribes etc. This state of affairs affects adversely national unity and 
hinders even development. The colonial rulers had fanned the ambers 
of division because a gap between Christians and Muslims (North and 
                                                           12A.B. Adeosun, “Federal Character Principle and National Integration… 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                 S. B. Ishaq 
138 
 
South) made it easier for them to control the diverse groups in Nigeria. 
Regrettably however, in spite of the passage of time these feelings have 
persisted.  
More than five decades after independence, mistrust still exists and 
riots easily break out today in many parts of the country. This is a 
consequence of narrow-mindedness, prejudices and lack of knowledge 
of other religions. Attaching much importance to religious 
considerations rather than unity and continued existence of Nigeria 
portends grave danger for its national unity and development. 
Therefore, tolerance, mutual love and understanding for other religions 
and tribes are important in order to destroy all the centrifugal forces. 
Interestingly, this is one of the cardinal objectives of the National Youth 
Service Corps. Integration entails a process of structural connection 
between two or more parts of a system or systems.13  The significance of 
integration in a society is better understood from the functionalist 
perspective where the society is seen as comprising sub-systems that 
are interdependent.  
From the above it can be said that in a heterogeneous society like 
Nigeria, every section or part needs the other parts for survival. 
Therefore, the different ethnic nationalities are interrelated and 
interdependent sub-units that must function in unity for the good of all. 
Integration can be social, cultural, economic or political in nature. At 
the national level, integration is always political in nature. In other 
words, it is the political integration that keeps a country united first 
before other forms of integration. Integration starts from the individual 
consciousness of mutual respect for national unity. It is achieved when 
political actors of the various ethnic nationalities in a country jettison 
                                                           13B. Odumade, National Youth Service Corps: In search of Relevance. Retrieved 
from https://guardian.ng/opinion/national-youth-service-corps-in-search-of-
relevance/. Accssed 23/02.2021. 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and Its Contribution to National Integration 
139 
 
or abandon primordial ethnic loyalties, and embrace national 
identity.14 
Therefore, national integration is a process that seeks to erode the 
manifestation of micro-nationalities in place of a spirit of nationhood.15 
It is clear that individuals are the units of integration, and members of a 
nation are integrated as they share a common identity. Thus, the term 
national integration is not applicable to a single nation, but involves 
two or more nations. A state is a political entity that is in many cases 
made of more than one nationality group. Thus, for example Nigeria 
constitutes of over 250 ethnic groups.16 
 
Contributions of the NYSC towards National Integration 
The National Youth Service Corps established by Decree 24 of 1973, 
and promulgated on 22nd May, 1973 with a total of 2, 364 youths who 
participated in its first year was aimed at fostering unity in the face of 
ethnic diversity following the unsuccessful attempt of the Eastern 
Region to secede, which resulted in the 30-month civil war (1967-70). 
It became urgent upon the Federal Military Government of Nigeria to 
reshape the country after the unsuccessful attempt by the Biafran state 
to secede, by setting a mechanism that will engender peaceful co-
existence and cooperation among the people of the country. The 
immediate challenge of the post- war period was how to engage in 
deliberate social engagements, designing specific programmes and 
pursuing meaningful national policies aimed at promoting national 
unity, eliminating discord among constituent groups, and fostering 
greater inter-ethnic understanding and harmony.17  
                                                           14Ojo, “Federalism and the Search for National Integration in Nigeria”. African 
Journal of Political Science and International Relations , 3(9),  2009. 384-395. 15Ojo, “Federalism and the Search for National Integration 16Ojo, “Federalism and the Search for National Integration 17 E. Obadare,Statism, Youth and Civic Imagination-A critical Study of the National 
Youth Service Corps Programme in Nigeria. (Dakar: CODESRIA, 2010). 22. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                 S. B. Ishaq 
140 
 
The choice of selecting the youths for the programme was borne out of 
the consideration that generally, the youths are agents of change and 
they are the ones who can bring about meaningful integration in the 
country, therefore the only way of achieving this is for the youths to 
cultivate a sense of common belonging and the desired national 
consciousness which would be far reaching and include political, social, 
state and ethnic loyalties. The choice of the youth for the programme 
also stemmed from two of the continent wide challenges namely: youth 
unemployment and the emigration of young unskilled people from 
rural areas to urban ones. 
It was also a way for the nation to invest in the youth’s future; since 
youths constitute a dominant force for national mobilization and 
growth.18 Ojo19 in his work argued that the NYSC scheme is of great 
significance to the concept of national integration, it is the easiest 
means to employ in developing common ties among the various youths 
and to promote national unity by ensuring that the youths are assigned 
to jobs in states other than their states of origin, with the intent of 
removing prejudices and eliminating ignorance among the young 
graduates. 
Though a difficult goal to achieve, its attainment has been mostly subtle 
and the successes recorded includes but limited to the making of the 
friends, the displacement of old prejudices and very significantly, inter-
cultural marriages during the service year. In a survey carried out on 
the NYSC as an attempt to foster national unity in the face of ethnic 
diversity, Iyizoba20 attempts to evaluate the success of the youth corps 
                                                           18 E. Obadare,Statism, Youth and Civic Imagination-A critical Study of the National 
Youth Service Corps Programme in Nigeria. (Dakar: CODESRIA, 2010). 44. 19E. Ojo, Federalism and the Search for National Integration in Nigeria. African 
Journal of Political Science and International Relations , 3(9), 384-395.  20 W. Iyizoba, “Nigerian Youth Service Corps: An Evaluation of an Attempt to 
Foster National Unity in the Face of Ethnic Diversity”. (Unpublished P.h.d Thesis, 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and Its Contribution to National Integration 
141 
 
Scheme in achieving the goal of reducing inter-ethnic prejudice 
amongst the various ethnic groups in Nigeria, he discovered that those 
that have had some exposure to other ethnic groups were significantly 
less prejudiced than those with no exposure. This result gives the 
programme a positive score. The policy adopted to post youths to 
states other than their states of origin has eventually been justified as a 
right step in the right direction.  
Forty-eight years after the establishment of the National Youth Service 
Corps, the deployment policy of the Scheme has remained as stipulated 
and constant: that all corps members must be posted to states other 
than their own. The implication of this, is that a much larger number of 
corps members serves in various parts of the country and their parents 
or guardians are also compelled to take interest in events and to think 
of developments in other parts of the country throughout the service 
year, whereas such parents and well-wishers may not have ordinarily 
given any thought to events in other parts of the country, but the fact 
that their sons and daughters or relations are on national service 
somewhere far away from home, compels them to think national.  
By the NYSC deployment policy, a large number of the nation’s youth 
have over the years, been given the opportunity of living and 
interacting with fellow Nigerians of other ethno-cultural groups for one 
year, thereby gaining direct, basic knowledge about these other 
Nigerians. Such interaction enables them to appreciate the basic 
similarities that exist between their culture at home and those of the 
host community. This appreciation of different cultural attributes 
which Nigerians shared help reduce ethnic bigotry and enable most 
corps members develop an attitude of hospitality and accommodation 
towards other Nigerians. In 1983, it was reported that 66 percent of 
those who participated in the scheme admitted that it has helped them 
                                                                                                                                       
The State University of New Jersey, Department of Sociology, Graduate School of 
Rutgers, New Jersey). 1989. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                 S. B. Ishaq 
142 
 
to develop a more positive attitude towards the people whom they 
stayed and served with.21 
As a direct consequence of the above, there was elimination of former 
prejudices. The scheme was able to some extent; break down the 
conservative attitude of youths in choosing marriage partners only 
from their own ethnic groups or lineage. They were transformed by 
their service year experiences and have come to the realization that 
tribe ought not to constitute any barrier to marriage. As a consequence, 
inter- tribal marriages which once seemed alien to the people began to 
be accepted as a norm if not even commonly adopted among the 
youths. These inter-tribal marriages subsequently helped to strengthen 
inter-ethnic ties and solidified bonds of unity among the Nigerian 
people.22 
It has also been a standing policy of the scheme to post a large number 
of the corps members to serve in rural communities. By this 
arrangement, the young corps members are brought to face the rural 
life and the challenges of development in those areas beside their own 
places. Due to the realization that these young men and women are the 
one who will serve as the nation’s policy-makers in the future, it was 
deduced that that they should have the basic experience of life in the 
rural area as it will help them forecast in the nearest future and 
formulate policies that will benefit millions of rural dwellers if given 
the opportunity. Therefore, it is clear from the above, that over the past 
four decades, the scheme has been building bridges between various 
factions of the Nigerian society; between state and state; one ethnic 
group and another; and urban and rural areas. It is also pertinent to 
note that it has been harmonizing the diverse ethnic groups of Nigeria 
by reducing prejudices and misconceptions among the people, 
                                                           21 G. Enegwea and G. Umoden, NYSC: Twenty years of National Service, (Abuja: 
Gabumo Pub, 1993). 160. 22 G. Enegwea and G. Umoden, NYSC : Twenty years of National Service …161. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and Its Contribution to National Integration 
143 
 
encouraging appreciation and tolerance. Recently, the NYSC has come 
to be acknowledged as perhaps the most realistic of all programmes 
initiated since independence.23  These have impacted to a large extent 
on national integration.  
Furthermore, as the scheme gained acceptance, acknowledgement and 
accolades, it has continued to serve as a point of reference in matters 
that demand patriotism, morals and values we cherish in our society. 
This is demonstrated in the activities of the members of the scheme as 
they have always partner with other government agencies. Important 
services and programmes organised by such agencies or organs of the 
agencies such as the National Population Commission (NPC), National 
Electoral Commission, among others are carried out in collaboration 
with the NYSC.  
In further examining the contributions of the NYSC scheme to national 
integration, one could take account of the statements of the heads of 
the Nigerian states over the years, in terms of their charge to the corps 
members and assessment of what the scheme is capable of doing and 
has done, one could come to the conclusion that the scheme has 
recorded unquatified success. ‘The purpose (of the scheme)’ says the 
founding head of state, Yakubu Gowon, in June 1973  
“is primarily to inculcate in Nigerian youths, the spirit 
of selfless service to the community and to emphasize 
the spirit of oneness and brotherhood of all Nigerians 
irrespective of cultural background. The history of our 
country since independence has clearly indicated the 
need for unity amongst all out people….”24 
About a decade later, President Shehu Shagari confirmed that  
“the hope expressed by Gowon had been achieved, 
stating that, participants of the NYSC have continuously 
                                                           23 G. Enegwea and G. Umoden, NYSC : Twenty years of National Service … 24  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                 S. B. Ishaq 
144 
 
made us proud and have justified the optimism of the 
founding fathers of the corps scheme. The discipline, 
the dedication to duty and loyalty they displayed each 
succeeding year, and their general comportment has 
been very admirable….”25 
The general who upstaged the Shagari-led democratic government did 
not share this optimism. For Muhammadu Buhari, speaking to the 
corps members in July 1984, 
“the scheme’s value lay in its potentials and not what it 
had achieved. Thus, Members of the NYSC constitute a 
reservoir of highly skilled, talented and vigorous 
manpower whose energies and vision, if tapped and 
properly harnessed would lead us to the desired 
socioeconomic upliftment and threshold of 
greatness….”26 
Buhari’s military successor, General Ibrahim Babangida, was more 
enamored by the achievements of individual corps members as he 
stated that “the numerous achievements of corps members, past and 
present, point to the fact that a technological breakthrough is feasible”  
The NYSC Directorate itself lists wide-ranging achievements. In its first 
decade the directorate sponsored some surveys that pointed to high 
success of the scheme in terms of the impact on the participants and 
general assessment. First is what the Directorate regards as the ‘less 
tangible’, but ostensibly more crucial contribution of the scheme, which 
is ‘fostering national consciousness and integration’.  
One such indication of that is taken to be the interest that parents and 
relations of corps members develop about the areas where their wards 
                                                           25‘Spotlight on NYSC at 25’, Daily Sketch, June 3, 1998, p. 5.     26‘Spotlight on NYSC at 25’, Daily Sketch, June 3, 1998, p. 5.   
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and Its Contribution to National Integration 
145 
 
are serving thus forcing them to ‘think national’.27 Also, interaction 
among the corps members with fellow Nigerians of different ethno-
cultural groups for one year is regarded as enabling them to ‘appreciate 
the basic similarities that exist between their culture at home and that 
of the host community’.28 This is expected to lead to ‘reduction in ethnic 
chauvinism and enable most corps members to develop a healthier and 
more accommodating attitude towards other groups of Nigerians’.29 
Inter-ethnic marriages resulting from the service year among others, 
have helped to build bridges and in ‘harmonizing the diverse peoples of 
Nigeria’ with the scheme acknowledged as ‘perhaps the most realistic 
of all programs initiated since independence, towards the systematic 
Nigerianization of the nation’s citizens. The scheme in the last 30 years 
has made major contributions in the areas of manpower supply, 
education (the sector where about 70 percent of the corps members 
perform their primary assignment), health care delivery and rural 
infrastructure, technology, sports and self-development of the 
participants.30  
These major contributions to the Nigerian state and society are 
acknowledged by media reports which praised the scheme in its second 
decade as, among others, playing ‘a unifying role among the nation’s 
various ethnic groups thereby promoting the objectives of ‘One Nigeria’ 
with ‘the cultural interaction while it has also helped in crucial ways in 
tackling skilled manpower problems and preparing the graduates for 
self-reliance, employment and self-employment.31  
                                                           27  The Guardian, ‘Revisiting the NYSC Scheme’, (editorial), September 6, 2002, p. 
12.  10 28  The Guardian, ‘Revisiting the NYSC Scheme’, (editorial), September 6, 2002, p. 
12.  10 29G. Enegwea and G. Umoden, NYSC: Twenty years of National Service, (Abuja: 
Gabumo Pub, 1993). 104 30G. Enegwea and G. Umoden, NYSC: Twenty years of National Service…105 31G. Enegwea and G. Umoden, NYSC: Twenty years of National Service… 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                 S. B. Ishaq 
146 
 
Conclusion 
The NYSC scheme, even though it has grappled with enormous 
challenges has been able to stand the test of time, and it is still very 
much relevant to the nation. Through the scheme, various 
achievements have been attained. Prejudices built over time have been 
reduced to some extent. Mutual trust has been developed among 
Nigerians of diverse languages and cultures. Today, the NYSC has 
enhanced and promoted inter-ethnic marriages among the youths of 
the nation. Nigerians now reside permanently in states where hitherto, 
they do mot visit and this has led to greater integration. The scheme 
has served immensely as a source of awareness to Nigerian youths as 
they are better informed about the cultures and way of life of others.  
This paper discussed the contributions of the National Youth Service 
Corps to national integration; the paper also highlighted the challenges 
of the National Youth Service Corps towards national integration. The 
paper found out that despite these challenges, the NYSC has remained a 
leading unifying factor that has brought about greater integration in the 
country. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and Its Contribution to National Integration 
147 
 
Bibliography 
 
‘Spotlight on NYSC at 25’, Daily Sketch, June 3, 1998, p. 5.     
Adedayo, O Nigeria: NYSC - Trudging On, 37 Years After. Daily 
Independent, 18 July. 
Adeosun, A.B. “Federal Character Principle and National Integration: A 
Critical Appraisal”. International Journal of Politics and Good 
Governance, Vol2, No.2: 1-13. 
Agbodike, C. Federal Character Principle and National Integration, In K. 
Amuwo et al (eds), Federalism and Political Restructuring in 
Nigeria. (Ibadan: Spectrum Books Limited, 1982).177 – 190. 
Aremu, F.A. “National Youth Service Corps Programme and the Quest 
for National Integration: Issues for Policy Consideration”, 
Journal of Management and Social Sciences, 7(1), 290, 2018. 
Ayoade, J.A. Nigeria: Positive Pessimism and Negative Optimism. A 
Paper delivered at the Faculty of Social Sciences, University of 
Ibadan. 
Egunyomi, A, The National Youth Service Corps: A Bridge to 
Nationalism in Nigeria. Retrieved from 
https://www.cfr.org/blog/national-youth-service-corps-
bridge-nationalism-nigeria. 
Ekanola, A.B. “National Integration and the Survival of Nigeria in the 
21st Century”. The Journal of Social, Political and Economic 
Studies, 31(3): 279-293, 2006.  
Enegwea G. and Umoden, G. NYSC: Twenty years of National Service, 
(Abuja: Gabumo Pub, 1993). 160. 
Iyizoba, W. “Nigerian Youth Service Corps: An Evaluation of an Attempt 
to Foster National Unity in the Face of Ethnic Diversity”. 
(Unpublished P.h.d Thesis, The State University of New  
Jersey, Department of Sociology, Graduate School of Rutgers, New 
Jersey). 1989. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                 S. B. Ishaq 
148 
 
Obadare, E. Statism, Youth and Civic Imagination-A critical Study of the 
National Youth Service Corps Programme in Nigeria. (Dakar: 
CODESRIA, 2010). 22. 
Odumade, B. National Youth Service Corps: In search of Relevance. 
Retrieved from https://guardian.ng/opinion/national-youth-
service-corps-in-search-of-relevance/. Accessed 23/02.2021. 
Ojo,  O. “Federalism and the Search for National Integration in Nigeria”. 
African Journal of Political Science and International Relations , 
3(9),  2009. 384-395.  
Oni, M. and Ogundinwin, A. Four Republics: A Critical Discourse of the 
Culture of Political Parties, In Osuntokun, Ukaogo, A.A and 
Akachi, O, (eds). Nigerian Studies- Readings inHistory, Politics, 
Society and Culture. (New Jersey: Goldmine and Jacob 
Publishers, 2010). 28-30. 
The Guardian, ‘Revisiting the NYSC Scheme’, (editorial), September 6, 
2002, p. 12.  10 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Quest for National Integration: The NYSC Approach 
149 
 
    11 1100 00    
    The Quest for National Integration:  
The NYSC Approach 
 
 
Usman Abubakar Lamido 
 
 
Introduction 
The most important challenge facing Nigeria in her journey of 
development since 1914 is no doubt that of nation-building or national 
integration.  The country became a single entity when British colonial 
amalgamated all its constituent groups/parts. This colonial rule till 
1960 was unable to promote the corporate unity of the Nigerian people 
but left the country worse off with underling traits of rivalries, rancor 
and acrimony amongst the emerging political elites of the diverse 
groups. With the breaking up of Nigeria into regions and introduction 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                              U. A. Lamido 
150 
 
of elective representations, it was not surprising that most of the 
political parties formed were regionally or ethnically based.  
Most of the early political parties were formed to prevent domination 
or control of their regions by any other regional parties in the 
politicking of the period. For instance, it was only the National 
Convention of Nigerian Citizens (NCNC) led by Nnamdi Azikiwe, that 
had a national acceptance in its formative stage, but later was 
bedevilled by some ethnic manipulations. These tensions and conflicts 
propped up at events that questioned the ability of Nigeria to emerge as 
a strong, united and integrated nation: the declaration of the state of 
emergency in western Nigeria in 1962, the National Census crisis, the 
treasonable felony trial of 1963, the poor conduct of elections of 1964 
and 1965, and the general strike of 1965 among others. The ugky event 
were climaxed with the two military coups of January 15th, July 28th 
1966 and the Nigerian Civil War of 1967-1970. 
However, there were conscious and concerted attempts to integrate the 
Nigerian entities severally but it was not yielding desired and expended 
result. For instance, military interregnum of Major General Aguiyi 
Ironsi’s regime promulgated Decree 34 on assumption of office. The 
decree was the adoption of a unitary system of government by 
abolishing the federal system. The main objective of the new system 
was to promote stability and unity through the eradication of tribalism 
and regionalism as they acted as agents of disunity during the aborted 
First Republic. However, the intention of the regime was misconstrued 
by some Nigerians especially Hausa-Fulani, who saw the decree as a 
grand design by the Igbos to dominate the political scene. General 
Yakubu Gowon’s regime restored the federal structure and also 
structured the country into twelve states from the former four regions. 
According to General Gowon, the creation of states was to protect the 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Quest for National Integration: The NYSC Approach 
151 
 
rights of minorities in the event of a civil war.1 It could also be argued 
that the creation of states by Gowon’s regime was to weaken the 
political base of Lt. Col. Odumegwu Ojukwu to frustrate his secession 
bid of the Eastern Region, thus, keeping the unity of the country as a 
corporate entity intact. The above events have culminated into 
animosities leading to the Biafran war which lasted for 30 months 
(1967 – 1970). 
After the civil war, General Yakubu Gowon’s government introduced 
many changes into the socio-political system of national life to promote 
peaceful co-existence, healthy growth and national cohesion. These 
include the establishment of the Federal Unity Colleges in all states 
which drew students from parts of the country. Second, the 
introduction of the Annual inter-state Games and Sport Competition 
now called The National Sport Festival where hosting is rotated 
amongst states and participating athletes are drawn from all states. The 
government started the National Festival of Cultural and Arts/Crafts for 
states/zonal participations. It was climaxed in the hosting of the first 
Black Cultural and Arts/Crafts Festival called FESTAC, 1977 in Lagos.  
National Students’ Exchange Programme co-ordinated by the Federal 
Ministry of Education and the States’ Ministry of Education was also 
introduce where their transportation, feeding, health, other sundry 
needs of the student were handled by the host state(s). These 
innovations including the establishment of National Youth Service 
Corps (NYSC) scheme were aimed at addressing the ill feelings could by 
the civil war, and ensuring to strengthen unity and peaceful coexistence 
of the people.2It is against this backdrop that this work seeks to 
                                                           1 L.U. Edigin, “Federal Character and National Stability in Nigeria” Journal of 
Research and National development, Vol. 8 No. 2, (2010) 2A. Egunyomi, The National Youth Service Corps: A Bridge to Nationalism in 
Nigeria. Retrieved from https://www.cfr.org/blog/national-youth-service-corps-
bridge-nationalism-nigeria. Accssed 23/02.2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                              U. A. Lamido 
152 
 
conceptualise national integration, Nationalism and examine the NYSC 
as a panacea to national integration in Nigeria. 
 
National Integration: A Conceptualization  
National integration is the process of unifying a multi-ethnic 
country/state, not necessarily into a single-ethnic one but a united and 
indivisible entity where primordial affiliations are made secondary for 
the greater good of the united nation-state. It can also be seen as the 
building of a national state, made up of disparate social, economic, 
religious, ethnic and geographical elements which entails the 
transformation of diffused and unorganized sentiments on nationalism 
into a spirit of citizenship through the creation of state institutions that 
can translate into policies and programmes and aspirations of the 
entire citizenry.3  
In their submission, Fatile and Adejuwon4 conceptualize national 
integration as the process whereby several disparate groups within a 
given territorial entity are united or co-operate under conditions which 
do not appear to permit satisfaction of the system needs in any other 
way. They concluded by stating that the goal of national integration is 
to ensure that plural society component parts are reasonably contented 
in the polity vis-a-vis equity and justice in resource allocation and 
access to equal opportunities. It must also be stated that it is the 
progressive reduction of cultural and regional tensions and 
discontinuities in the process of creating a homogenous political 
community. 
                                                           3B. Odumade, National Youth Service Corps: In search of Relevance. Retrieved 
from https://guardian.ng/opinion/national-youth-service-corps-in-search-of-
relevance/. Accssed 23/02.2021. 4J. Fatile, and K. Adejuwon, Ethnicity and National Integration in Nigeria: The post 
Colonial Experience, In 
 A. Osuntokun,  A.  Ukaogo, and A. Akachi, (eds). Nigerian Studies- Readings in 
History, Politics, Society and Culture. (New Jersey: Goldmine and Jacob Publishers, 
2010). 35-40. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Quest for National Integration: The NYSC Approach 
153 
 
Duverger5 defines it as the process of unifying a society which tends to 
make it a harmonious city based upon an order its members regard as 
equitably harmonious. National integration is a process whereby 
political actors in distinct national settings are persuaded to shift their 
loyalties, expectations and political activities towards a new centre, 
whose institutions possess or demand jurisdiction over the pre-existing 
nation-state.  Ogunojemite6 also defines national integration as a 
process leading to political cohesion and sentiments of loyalty toward a 
central political authority and institutions by individual belonging to 
different social groups or political unit.   
Morrison and Stevenson7define it as the degree of cohesion that binds 
members of social systems together, and is generally thought of in 
terms of the values, institutions and communications which facilitate 
escalating sequences of social contact, cooperation and consensus.  
 
Nationalism 
In his exposition, Nwabughoughu rightly posits that Nationalism is: 
The Strong devotion to one’s country, patriotic feelings, 
efforts, principles … a consciousness on the part of 
individuals or groups of membership in a nation, or a 
desire to forward the strength, liberty or prosperity of 
a nation.8 
 
                                                           5D.G. Morrison, and  H.M. Stevenson, “Political instability in independent black 
Africa: more dimensions of conflict behavior within nations”. Journal of Conflict 
resolution, 15, 347- 368. https://doi.org/10.1177/002200277101500306 6A. I. Nwabughuogu, Problems of Nation Biulding in Africa, (Owerri: FERP 
Publication, 2009) 49. 7 O. Adedayo, Nigeria: NYSC - Trudging On, 37 Years After. Daily Independent, 18 
July, 2010. 8 A.I Nwabughuogu, Problems of Nation Biulding in Africa, (Owerri: Fasmen 
Publication, 2009), 4. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                              U. A. Lamido 
154 
 
The above position is not engraved in Nigerians and seen in other 
countries. Ever before and after independence, rather, many ethnic 
societies were in conflicts with one another and each with its loyalties 
to the small ethnic group. Although the colonial authorities tried to 
bring many of these minorities into a larger group called nation-states 
and for them to subsequently be integrated. Yet, there was no political 
commitment that could encourage or enforce the transformation of any 
of these ethnic societies that colonialism brought together in to a single 
integrated entity. In other words, that political force or will otherwise 
called nationalism which alone promotes the idea of a nation and which 
mobilizes mass support to make the idea a reality, was completely 
absent in most  Nigerian succeed leadership, particularly in post-
independent period.9  
 
The National approach to National Integration. 
By every conceivable standard, Nigeria is a country that is richly 
blessed with human and material resources. Like many other African 
states, Nigeria’s human endowment is a conglomeration of different 
ethnic group,10 Okonta identifies the larger groups as “Hausa, Fulani, 
Tiv, Kanuri,and Nupe in the Northernparts; the Yoruba, Edo, Urhobo, 
Itsekiri and Ijaw in the Western parts; the Ibo, Ibibio and Efik in the 
Eastern parts”. The country has an estimated population of about 200 
million people.11 Apart from its immense mineral wealth, of which oil 
and gas resources are currently the most prominent, the country is also 
endowed with rich agricultural lands capable of sustaining a wide 
variety of crops across the savannah and forest zones.12 
                                                           9 A.I Nwabughuogu, Problems of Nation Biulding… 10 A. Amalachi, How to restore NYSC’s lost glory. 
thenationonlineng.net/web2/articles/. 
Downloaded on February 8, 2011.  11 I. Okonta, . Nigeria and the world: Re-thinking Nigeria (3), Thisday, May, 21. 12E. Amana, We can take our people up there: An examination of leadership and 
democracy in Nigeria. Lagos: Union Communications and Publishers Limited. 2000. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Quest for National Integration: The NYSC Approach 
155 
 
The need for temporary peaceful environment (administrative 
convenience) and perhaps, easy access to the Atlantic for British 
sustainable exploitation of the Nigerian resources for her home 
economy prompted the amalgamation of the Southern and Northern 
Protectorates in 1914. While Obayori13 out rightly debunked the 
position that it was meant to “serve the exploitative aim of the British”, 
Edwand Ajayi14 however, view the amalgamation as an act by the 
colonial rulers to bail the North out of its perpetual deficit, translated to 
mean that “customs revenue could be shared between Southern Nigeria 
with a coastline and the landlocked Northern Nigeria”. In contention of 
this, Okonta15 insists that such utterances are promoted by Southerner 
stop or tray their northern counterpart in a negative light as he 
remarks that before 1914 “all Hausa cities were well sufficient in food 
and other necessities. Kano was one of the greatest market centers in 
Africa and had trade links with Egypt and the Mediterranean World.” 
This work is in support of the views expressed by Okonta because the 
interests of the colonial officials were paramount, to develop their 
economy back home and not to redeem any part of Nigeria.  
 
Tools Employed for National Integration 
Ojo16 arguing on the side of policy makers, is of the view that an 
interaction among the emergent elite especially outside their ethnic 
base would enhance a better understanding among the various ethnic 
groups, justified the establishment of the National Youth Service Corps 
programme. To be sure, the enabling legislation that established the 
NYSC, states explicitly the objectives as well as modus operandi of the 
                                                           13K. Oyetimi, NYSC redeploys corpers in Borno. Downloaded from 
http://tribune.com.ng on May 15 2012.   14 A.H. Center, Public relations practices. 6th edition. Englewood Cliffs: Prentice-
Hall. 2003 15 G. Broom, Effective public relations. New Jersey: Pearson Prentice Hall. 2006 16E. Ojo, Federalism and the Search for National Integration in Nigeria. African 
Journal of Political Science and International Relations , 3(9), 384-395. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                              U. A. Lamido 
156 
 
programme. Of great significance to the concept of national integration 
is the objective of developing common ties among the various youths 
and to promote national unity by ensuring that the youths are assigned 
to jobs in states other than their states of origin, with the intent of 
removing prejudices and eliminating ignorance among the young 
graduates- the emerging elite.  
In a survey carried out on the NYSC as an attempt to foster national 
unity in the face of ethnic diversity, Iyizoba17attempts to evaluate the 
success of the youth corps programme in achieving the goal of reducing 
inter-ethnic prejudice amongst the various ethnic groups in Nigeria, he 
discovered that exposure to other ethnic groups were significantly 
related to prejudice of respondents; in other words, those that have 
had some exposure to other ethnic groups were significantly less 
prejudiced than those with no exposure. This result gives the 
programme a positive score. The policy adapted to deploying youths to 
states other than their states of origin has eventually been justified as a 
right step in the right direction.  
There are varying factors that has contributed to making the NYSC 
scheme an attractive tool for national integration. 
Corps Members Deployment to Various States 
The rationale behind the deployment of corps members to states 
mostly, states other than their state of origin is a factor that translates 
into the earnest desire the Scheme to enhance national integration and 
cohesion among the youths. This has served as a source of awareness 
to the youths, as most of them are posted to areas alien to them. The 
youths who hitherto see some states as their least expected destination 
began to acknowledge their stay there as it becomes their host 
                                                           17 W. Iyizoba, “Nigerian Youth Service Corps: An Evaluation of an Attempt to Foster 
National Unity in the Face of Ethnic Diversity”. (Unpublished P.h.d Thesis, The 
State University of New Jersey, Department of Sociology, Graduate School of 
Rutgers, New Jersey). 1989. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Quest for National Integration: The NYSC Approach 
157 
 
communities. It has been recorded that: as a consequence of the above, 
most of the corps members stay in their host communities to carry out 
other activities such as trading activities, regular businesses, and even, 
others are retained in the places of their primary assignment, after 
their service year and subsequently became integrated in their host 
communities.18 
 
Community Development Service  
The community Development Service Programme , it has served as a 
veritable tool for national integration. This has made the corps 
members to engage in developmental activities, mostly in rural 
communities which has helped integrate these corps members and 
promote patriotic behaviors among them, These various projects they 
embarked on have helped strengthen the development status-quo of 
their host communities and has virtually remained a legacy to be 
remembered among the host communities.19  
 
Intermarriage 
Inter-ethnic marriages, which is a consequence of the one-year service 
mostly occurs and this is a result of the long-time familiarity of corps 
members from the period of camping and even during service year. 
These have helped to build bridges of unity and cohesion among the 
youths and bringing together divers ethnic groups in Nigeria. It is also 
record that the Scheme set up incentives to promote intermarriage. 
There are monetary, and non-monetary incentives put in place to 
ensure that Corps members are encouraged to getting married to 
themselves during their service year. Though even beyond their service 
year, ex-corps members still go ahead to get married, this is as a result 
                                                           18R. Alba “The Social significance of Intermarriage” Contemporary Jewry, Vol. 12, 
No. 1 (December 1991), pp. 9-19 19https://nysc.gov.ng/downloads/CDS_ABC.pdf 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                              U. A. Lamido 
158 
 
of the familiarity that was established during their camping and post-
camp exercise.20 
 
Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development 
The SAED programme has been largely acknowledge as an as an 
assessment of national integration which was brought to limelight in 
the year 2012.The programme has served so many economic purposes 
especially in the area of employment creation yet it still portrays some 
aspect of national integration. Through the SAED, corps members have 
learnt skills and have established themselves mostly in places order 
than their state of origin. So also, they have relied on trainers from 
across the country not minding the distance or the location of these 
trainers. By so doing, they tend to settle in places other than their place 
of birth. Some of these corps members, having thrived in their ventures 
tend to integrate with their host communities and most time, getting 
married their and being acculturated through marriage or learning of 
language of their host communities.21 
 
Conclusion 
The NYSC Scheme has come to stay, of agenda how household which 
served as a veritable tool for national integration. One could not have 
thought of a better way to unite Nigerians after the thirty (30) months 
of the dreaded civil war than the NYSC. Even though it is not without its 
shortcomings which are not farfetched, yet its relevance outweighs the 
limitations. This is evident in scores of social, economic and political 
activities it involves in. For example, corps members as well as staff of 
the Scheme are invited regularly involved in the conduct of sensitive 
national and international assignments as it is currently done by the 
Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) where they are 
                                                           20https://nysc.gov.ng/downloads/CDS_ABC.pdf 21https://nysc.gov.ng/downloads/CDS_ABC.pdf 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Quest for National Integration: The NYSC Approach 
159 
 
being used as adhoc staff for elections. Similarly, the Scheme’s 
partnership with other sister agencies such as NEMA, FRSC, EFCC, 
among others have largely contributed to national development has 
enhanced National Integration.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                              U. A. Lamido 
160 
 
Bibliography  
 
Abdulbaqi, S. S, Public Relations as a Tool for Mobilisation in Resolving 
Niger Delta Crisis, In Public relations in perspective. A Periodic 
Publication of NIPR, Kwara State Chapter. 2009. 
Adegoke, L. Introduction to public relations: Principles, media and 
methods. Amsterdam: Homelab Multi ventures. 2009. 
Ademowo, Y, NYSC: Exploring the diversity in the unity of Nigeria. 
www.nigerian-
newspaper.com/national_youth_service_corps.httmon 
Thursday, May 6. 2010. 
Ajayi, A. Danger signposts for the Nigerian State. Thisday, February, 11. 
2000. 
Alba R. “The Social significance of Intermarriage” Contemporary Jewry, 
Vol. 12, No. 1 (December 1991), pp. 9-19 
Amalachi, A, How to restore NYSC’s lost glory. The nation 
onlineng.net/web2/articles/.Downloaded on February 8, 2011. 
Amana,E, We can take our people up there: An examination of 
leadership and democracy in Nigeria. Lagos: Union 
Communications and Publishers Limited. 1997 
Bwala, J., Azeez, B., Usigbe, L. & Oyetimi, K, NYSC redeploys corpers in 
Borno. Downloaded from http://tribune.com.ng on May 15 
2012. 
Center, A.H. & Jackson, P. Public relations practices. 6th edition. 
Englewood Cliffs: Prentice-Hall. 2003 
Cutlip, S. M., Center, A. H. & Broom, G. M. (2006). Effective public 
relations. New Jersey: Pearson Prentice Hall. 
Dare, O, Matters arising. Ibadan: Engret Books. 1992 
Edema, A.J.M. Strategic public relations: Insight for managers. In 
Nwosu, I.E. (ed) Nigerian perspectives in public relations. 
Enugu: Ezu Books Ltd. 2007 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Quest for National Integration: The NYSC Approach 
161 
 
 Edigin, L.U. “Federal Character and National Stability in Nigeria” 
Journal of Research and National development, Vol. 8 No. 2, 
(2010) 
Egan,J. Political marketing lessons from the mainstream. Journal of 
marketing management. Vol. 15 (6) 495-504 2000 
https://nysc.gov.ng/downloads/CDS_ABC.pdf 
Ihimodu, I. Nigeria now set for time of development. Being a paper 
presented at the IFAD CCBARDP Orientation course held at 
ARMTI, Ilorin. 2000 
International IDEA. Democracy in Nigeria: Continuing dialogue(s) for 
nation building. (Series 10). 
Keghku, T. Public relations and the Nigerian economy. Makurdi: Aboki 
Publishers. 2005 
Lattimore, et al. Public relations: The profession and practice. New 
York: McGraw Hill Higher Education. 2004. 
Lattimore, et al, Public relations: The profession and the practice. 
(Third Edition) Boston: McGraw-Hill International Education. 
2009. 
Littlejohn, S.W., & Foss, K.A, Theories of human communication. (Eight 
Edition) Australia: Thomson Wadsworth. 
Lloyd, H, Public relations. London: Hodder and Stoughton Ltd. 2008. 
Mattelart, A., & Mattelart, M. (1998). Theories of communication: A 
short introduction. London: Sage Publishers. 
McNeill, D. & Freiberger, P. (1993). Fuzzy logic. New York: Simon 
&Schuster. 
National Youth Service Corps. http://www.nysc.gov.ng/history2.php 
Downloaded on January 17, 2011. 
Nwosu, I. E. (1990). Mass communication and national development: A 
perspective on the communication environment of 
development in Nigeria. Aba: Frontiers Publishers Ltd. 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                              M. L. Murtala 
162 
 
 1111 1111    
    Inter-Ethnic Marriages and National Integration:  
The NYSC Approach 
 
 
Mohammed Liman Murtala 
 
 
Introduction 
The quest for national integration, unity, and cohesion among Nigeria’s 
diverse ethnic groups has for long littered the pages of the country’s 
history,1 but it became more determined especially after the end of the 
Civil War 1967-1970. The war left in its trail catalogue of unhealed 
wounds that desperately needs urgent attention. The Gowon’s 
                                                           1T J. Davis and A. Kalu-Nwiwu, “Education, Ethnicity and National Integration in 
the History of Nigeria: Continuing Problem’s of Africa’s Colonial Legacy,” The 
Journal of Negro History Vol 86, No. 1 (2001): 1, accessed March 16, 2021, 
URLhttp://www.jstor.org/stable/1350175.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Inter-Ethnic Marriages and National Integration: 
163 
 
administration, in its effort to reconstruct, reconcile, and rehabilitate 
the Nigerian nation and foster unity and national integration, in all 
fronts, birthed the idea of the establishment of the National Youth 
Service Corps (NYSC) in 1973, targeting the teeming Nigerian youths as 
a driving force in the achievement of the set objectives.  
As enshrined in the establishment Act of the scheme, amongst other 
objectives is the promotion of national unity and integration. This 
remains, therefore, the primary and uncompromising engine that 
moves the wheels of the motive behind its establishment. The scheme 
involves the posting of Corps Members for national service to states 
other than theirs to meet, interact, impact, and of course inter-marry 
with other Nigerians from different backgrounds, cultures and 
traditions they met. This paper studies inter-marriage among ethnic 
groups since the earliest times as an avenue of cultural contact between 
societies, demonstrating the use of marriage to advance their 
relationships and forge alliances with one another.  
Inter-marriage has been a veritable tool for integration among groups. 
However, the paper further interrogates the role of inter-ethnic 
marriages as a social tool of national integration through the NYSC. In 
the same vein, the paper seeks to examine the union among corps 
members during the service year, and how it has been encouraged by 
the Scheme through various means, for the example given monetary 
and moral support to corps members who meet themselves during the 
service year and end up in marriage. Such moral and monetary 
supports have fostered national integration by stimulating more inter-
ethnic marriages among serving corps members in a different states.  
 
Conceptual Clarification 
Inter-marriage 
According to the new world Encyclopedia, intermarriage is the 
marriage between people of different backgrounds. This background 
can be either religious or racial. It can also be understood as marrying 
outside one’s social group which can be defined by religion, race, or 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                              M. L. Murtala 
164 
 
other differences.2Inter-marriage is practically adopted and used 
universally by almost, if not all races for mostly, developing more close 
ties and inter-ethnic tolerance.3Simon Mackson postulated further in 
his famous theory of inter-marriage and assimilation that, 
“Miscegenation or the inter-breeding of ethnic and racial groups is a 
universal phenomenon.  
There are no peoples that do not interbreed. The resulting process of 
amalgamation represents the fusion of ethnic and racial groups by 
interbreeding and intermarriage. Amalgamation or the crossing of 
racial and ethnic traits through intermarriage promotes assimilation”. 
With such analysis, it means that with inter-ethnic marriages among 
different nationalities, it is only a question of time for the process to 
complete which is amalgamation.4Besides the cultural assimilation, in 
line with social cohesion theory, intermarriage significantly reduces the 
probability of violent conflict among social groups, serving as an early 
warning system for inter-ethnic conflicts.5While in the context of our 
study, we are looking at inter-marriage between different ethnicities as 
a tool of national integration, with special emphasis on the role of 
National Youth Service Corps Scheme in bringing together, the 
polarized ethnic groups through inter-marriages. 
 
 
 
 
                                                           2 New World Encyclopedia,https://www.newworldencyclopedia.org/ 
entry/Intermarriage.  3 Safiya Abu Wada, 29 years, PhD Student, Interviewed at Kaduna, March 16, 
2021. 4Simon Mackson, “Theory of Inter-Marriage and Assimilation”(Oxford: Oxford 
University Press, 1951), 75 in Oxford University Journal, 
http://www.jstor.org/stable/2572762. 5 Jeroen Smits, “Ethnic Intermarriage and Social Cohesion: What can we learn from 
Yugoslavia”? Nijmegen Center of Economics, Institute for Management Research, 
Radboud University Nijmegen, The Netherlands, (2009), doi:10.1007/s11205-009-
9485-y 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Inter-Ethnic Marriages and National Integration: 
165 
 
National/Cultural Integration 
Weiner offered an understanding of the concept of integration by 
categorizing it into five different sections; the change from cultural 
diversity to national identifications, the establishment of a central 
political authority, the linkage of elite and masses, minimum value 
consensus, and a capacity for action towards a common goal.6 
Meanwhile, Weiner also believes that the ability to bring together the 
masses perceived to be indifferent to one another regardless, to the 
realization of national identity other than culture is national 
integration. 
It may not necessarily be to assimilate one’s culture into another as 
often stresses by Mackson. In other word, national integration can be 
regarded as a sub-process of the wider concept of nation-building, 
Amucheazi, defines it as the bringing together of the various 
relationships, with the loyalty to the nation above any other.7 This may 
be described simply as an effort on the part of the individuals, as well 
as the government of a geopolitical entity, to consolidate diverse 
people, communities, and socio-cultural groups under the umbrella of a 
broad concept of nationality. This has never been an easy task on the 
side of any government or polity to drive a polarize society to national 
integration, this is better described by Davis as thus; 
Since ancient times, history has demonstrated the 
difficult, complex, and varied developments needed to 
unite a people under a government and to create 
among them a stable cultural, economic, political, and 
social community. The process has been especially 
strenuous where the people to be united have included 
                                                           6 Otwin Marenin, “National Service and National Conciousness in Nigeria”, The 
Journal of Modern African Studies, Vol. 17, No 4 (1979), p642. 7S A. Ajayi, “Nigeria and the Search for National Integration: Tapping from the Pre-
Colonial Inter-group Relations”, Journal of Historical Society of Nigeria, Vol. 16 
(2005), p89. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                              M. L. Murtala 
166 
 
diverse, large groups distinguished by their customs, 
language, or separate identity.8 
The idea here is to change the existing traditional inward-looking 
attitudes of ethnic and tribal groupings and inculcate in the citizenry a 
sense of loyalty, belonging, and patriotism to the new and larger 
geopolitical entity, as in the case of Nigeria to the federal government, 
especially as noted earlier above during the post-civil war experience.9 
 
The NYSC and Inter-Marriage 
As earlier stated in the paper, one of the objectives of the NYSC Scheme 
is to expose the corps members to different cultures and traditions in 
the country through posting to states other than their own.10 The 
central aim is forging unity, integration, and inter-ethnic 
understanding. The long-lost social harmony among the various ethnic 
groups in the country is faced with an all-out strategy during this 
period; the Gowon’s administration was ever committed to this course 
until the cleavage is defeated. In restoring peace, social cohesion, and 
                                                           8 T J. Davis and A. Kalu-Nwiwu, “Education, Ethnicity and National Integration in 
the History of Nigeria.p1 9 Furtherance on this, cultural integration as regards our understanding of the 
topic under discussion, can be said to have been more rigorously pursued 
especially during the aftermath of the Nigerian Civil War. Although, this has been 
the case since the period of the colonial amalgamation of the southern and the 
northern regions, up to the period of the attainment of political independence in 
October 1960. This is as a result of the bitter experience of the war thatconnotes 
more of an inter-ethnic clash rather than a cessations move. This played out well 
even before the outbreak of the war. As at the time, there is intense ethnic rivalry 
following the political crisis in the western state, couple with the first coup of 
January 1966 than aggravated the situation further all along ethnic and cultural 
alienations. 10 It is believed that exposing one to other cultures and traditions that hitherto 
might have been to him that he only herd or see on paper will help in disorienting 
minds to the actual truth of the beautiful nature of other tribes and traditions. In 
most cases, corp members that happen to visit the other side always attest to the 
saying that this is not what they expected to see, it could have been an 
exaggeration or underreporting.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Inter-Ethnic Marriages and National Integration: 
167 
 
inter-ethnic integration, the NYSC encourages any act either through 
the NYSC or otherwise that, in the end, will be in the interest of 
fostering unity among people in the country including inter-ethnic and 
inter-religious marriages. 
To encourage inter-ethnic marriage among corps members, the NYSC 
provides incentives for the couples which arguably encourage others to 
also partake. Inter-ethnic marriages in African culture and Nigerian in 
particular for example, Otumalah succinctly categorize the stages of 
unity through inter-ethnic marriages as follows; Firstly, when the inter-
ethnic marriage has taken place, the two in-laws (ethnic groups) have 
become united and positively attached forever. This is because, during 
childbirth, they will do the social gathering together, and in the case of 
offerings, they will consider themselves as the first beneficiary, their 
families will always celebrate in uniform because of the union. 
Secondly, inter-ethnic marriage prevents strive and conflicts among 
people to an extent. It is undeniable fact that people that are called in-
laws, (Suruki, Ogom) can never throw a stone or any hard object at 
each other. That is to say, the marital union involving their family 
members helped them in resolving conflict than separating them. Even 
in an event of war, the man who marries from that ethnic group from 
the other side is not allowed to go participate in that war, including the 
children of that family. It will look like they are fighting their mother or 
father as the case may be. Therefore, in an African traditional system, if 
one marries from a particular ethnic group, that family becomes his 
also.11 
In the quest to promote this quality and healthier relations among 
people in the society, since the inception of the NYSC scheme, it was 
recorded on several instances; successive NYSC directors were 
reported to have been encouraging the corps members to intermarry 
among themselves, which in turn will aid in the achievement of the 
                                                           11 Onah Otumalah, 34 years, Lecturer, Nigerian Defence Academy, 18, March 
2121. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                              M. L. Murtala 
168 
 
objective of the scheme. Intermarriage is an important indicator of the 
quality of the relationships among groups in a society.12 As earlier 
stated, marriage among corps members is encouraged and can be said 
to have significantly improved from the records of inter-marriages 
among corps members, as noted by Enegwea that; 
The scheme is continually breaking down the 
conservative attitude of youths choosing marriage 
partners only from their ethnic groups. Transformed 
by their service year experiences, many youths have 
since realized that the tribe ought not to constitute any 
barrier to marriage. The result is that inter-tribal 
marriages are helping to strengthen inter-ethnic ties 
and to solidify the bonds of unity among all Nigerian 
people.13 
During his tour of camps recently, Brig. Gen. Shuaibu Ibrahim 
encouraged corps members Wamakko permanent Orientation camp to 
foster the country’s quest for integration. He assured the corps 
members of the scheme’s readiness to encourage inter-ethnic 
marriages with any assistance that will lead to the success of the 
marriage. He further stated that “you should see your selves as one 
family irrespective of where you come from, establish the spirit of 
oneness right from the orientation camp and if possible marry 
yourselves”.14 Even before this call, one can be said that Nigerian 
youths had heeded to the call of the National Youth Service Corp to 
some extent; this is because it was recorded on various occasions when 
corps members inter-marry, while in the case of some, it is the NYSC 
that paved the way, as they were able to meet their spouses because 
                                                           12Safiya Abu Wada, 29 years, PhD Student, Interviewed at Kaduna, March 16, 
2021.  13Enegwea G, and Umoden G, NYSC: Twenty Years of National Service.p162. 14News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), “ NYSC DG Encourages Corps Members to Inter-
Marry”, Economic Confidential, 21 June, 2019, in Media Assessment: Shuaibu 
Ibrahim’s Silent Revolution in NYSC, Vol 1, 2020.p26. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Inter-Ethnic Marriages and National Integration: 
169 
 
either the wife or the husband was deployed to the domain of the 
opposite sex.  
Mrs. Iyabo Omokri (nee Ogunseitan) who was one time State Director 
NYSC, Ondo State, gave an account of her experience of meeting her 
husband during the service year from 1974-1975 and the eventualities 
that led them to marriage in the north-western part of the country. She 
stated that her posting to the northern part of the country garnered a 
lot of criticism from her family, although she did her undergraduate 
from the north Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, still, her parent wanted 
her to serve in the south. She further stated that her father has even 
made an attempt of working for her relocation to Lagos, but she 
insisted on actualizing her dream of having the opportunity to visit 
Sokoto, as she had for long been hearing about it. 
The couple met at the Orientation camp in the Argungu Fishing Village 
from where the relationship started to gather momentum. After the 
Orientation exercise,  she was posted to the Civil Service Commission in 
Sokoto, as Assistant Secretary, but for the fact that she and her husband 
to be had decided to get married, she had to relocate to Minna where 
her fiancée is as a lawyer-corper serving as a state counsel. Iyabo 
lamented that; 
I was reposted as a teacher to Fatima College in Minna, 
and then during the service year, we got married in 
Minna. It was a real Corpers’ affair, the place was 
packed full of all the corpers serving around there plus 
some of our relations in the North-Western State. To 
crown it all, we had a child before the end of the service 
year, whom everybody was calling Ali (after the then 
National Director) Colonel Ahmadu Ali. My only 
disappointment is that we did not receive the cash 
award meant for those who got married during the 
service year.15 
                                                           15Enegwea G, and Umoden G, NYSC: Twenty Years of National Service.p97. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                              M. L. Murtala 
170 
 
A good example of this also can be seen in the case of His Royal 
Highness Ovie Omeleh, a paramount ruler of Yenaka Community in 
Yenagoa Local Government of Bayelsa State who met his wife as a 
result of the NYSC. He narrated his experience to the NYSC News crew 
while being interviewed on the assessment of the NYSC Scheme. The 
traditional ruler commended the tremendous contribution of the NYSC 
scheme in the promotion of national development, unity, and 
integration. He opined that; 
I am aware of the impactful values of the programme 
from other people’s experiences, especially my wife 
who came to serve in Bayelsa State. The NYSC provided 
me the opportunity to meet her. Of course, it has 
impacted positively on the lives of members of the 
society especially the youths, by exposing them to the 
diversity of the country and the opportunity to gain 
and share their individual experiences.16 
Another instance of inter-ethnic marriage among corps members 
happened in Taraba State between Ayodele Blessing and Jude Amile of 
the 2013 Batch C exercise. The corps members hail from different 
states and belong to different ethnic groups. Jude is Tiv by tribe from 
Benue State, while Blessing is Yoruba from Kogi State. The relationship 
started from the camp in Sibre Jalingo, fortunately for these love birds, 
Jude and Blessing belong to the same family house, Nigerian Christian 
Corpers’ Fellowship (NCCF) where Jude was the Papa and Blessing 
happens to be the Mama. This relationship continued even after the 
orientation exercise which culminated in marriage two years after. Jude 
stresses the important role played by the NYSC in making their journey 
a reality that today, the marriage is blessed with two children a boy and 
a girl.  
 
                                                           16 NYSC News, A Journal of NYSC Directorate Headquarters, “I Me My Wife 
Through the NYSC, HRH Ovie Omeleh, 2019, p51. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Inter-Ethnic Marriages and National Integration: 
171 
 
Although the couples did not notify the NYSC as the marriage ceremony 
took place when their batch had already passed out from service, this 
has not changed the fact that it was the NYSC that became the genesis 
of the union. Right from that period of the marriage, a strong bond of 
social cohesion between the two families was created that today 
according to Jude, “my wife unlike from the beginning, I could 
remember she was offered the Tiv native cloth to wear as part of the 
wedding proceedings when she refused, but today, she had learned a 
lot of the Tiv culture and to a greater extent, I can say she is now Tiv 
because she knows a lot now, and can as well speak the language 
although not fluently, I too can now understand the Yoruba language, 
culture, and traditions, thanks to NYSC.17 
It has become a norm in the activities of the NYSC Director Generals to 
always encourage the corps members on the importance of inter-
marriage among corps members. The DGs usually said this while 
reminding the corps member of the cardinal objective of the scheme, 
which is the promotion of national unity and cohesion. In the same 
vein, NYSC recorded another achievement of marital vow between 
2019 Batch “A” corps members Muhammad Alhaji Musa and Hauwa 
Yahaya Bagudu. The relationship according to the couples started when 
they met at Kusallah Dam NYSC Orientation camp Karaye in Kano State. 
What aided the progress of the relationship to continue is the fact that 
they genuinely identified their potentials in improving their lives 
regardless of their ethnic backgrounds provided that they are all 
Nigerians with the common national interest.  
 
This bond between Corper Muhammed and Corper Hauwa culminated 
and finally blossom into marriage.18 The wedding reception took place 
at Nigerian Air Force Base in Kano, the NYSC State Coordinator Malam 
Baba Ladan and other NYSC staff had graciously witnessed the occasion 
and also call on other corps members to emulate the couples in the 
                                                           17 Jude Amile, 33 years, Business, Kaduna, March 19, 2021. 18 NYSC News, A Journal of NYSC Directorate Headquarters, “ 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                              M. L. Murtala 
172 
 
actualization of the ideals of the NYSC Scheme which is to promote 
national unity and integration.  
Felicia Haruna and Mark Makafan Odi also take the advantage of the 
NYSC that brought them together to serve in Plateau State. Felicia is 
from Kaduna State while Mark hails from Kogi State. Their tribal 
difference had never stand in between the natural love and respect 
they developed for each other. Just as Muhammed and Hauwa who are 
of different ethnic background and from different states, Felicia and 
Mark had the same history of being from different ethnic backgrounds, 
they narrated the development of their relationship since from the 
beginning that they met in the Mangu Orientation camp in Plateau state 
as 2019 Batch “B” Corps members. 
Felicia stated that she met Mark at the Orientation camp, it happened 
that they are of the same platoon 7, they went through the activities of 
the platoon together which became the reason they familiarize 
themselves. Then eventually after the three weeks of Orientation in 
camp, they were posted to their place of Primary Assignment in the 
same Local Government, Jos South, coincidentally again, they belonged 
to the same Community Development Service (CDS) group, and this 
was how it all started. The NYSC News crew had time to ask the couples 
about the contribution of the NYSC Scheme in improving their lives, 
and their opinion was sought to encourage other corps members to 
also utilize the opportunity provided by the scheme to develop 
themselves and if possible inter-marry. Felicia observes that; 
The NYSC is a ground that has opened opportunities for 
self-discovery. It nurtures youths to be better citizens. 
In just a year, I have learned so many things not just for 
myself but how to be of help to others….my advice to 
other Corps Members is that they should stop having a 
negative thought about the service year because if I 
were the type that believes in playing with male corps 
members just for marital gain, I wouldn't be here today, 
happily married. I was focused on creating something 
big out of NYSC and even when my husband asked me 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Inter-Ethnic Marriages and National Integration: 
173 
 
out, I didn’t accept or took him seriously but I was still 
a friend to him who also helped until I found all the 
characteristics I have always wanted in a man in him.19 
 
Mark had also put the advice to the fellow Corps Members on the 
importance of taking advantage of the NYSC Scheme to advance oneself, 
he stressed that “The NYSC Scheme has been given great opportunities 
for youth and graduates. It is an eye-opener because it has helped to 
teach one to be independent, peaceful, and respectful. Therefore, my 
advice to other Corps Members is that they should seize the 
opportunity given to them by NYSC Scheme to uplift the nation and 
develop themselves for the future. They should be ready to break 
boundaries and always take a bold step with strong determination. The 
Scheme should not be taken for granted as everything it offers the 
youth affects our day-to-day living as a prerequisite for greatness”.20 
Similarly, corps members from Jigawa State also tied the nuptial knot in 
the marriage registry of the Ijumu Local Government Area of Kogi State.  
The two couples met and started their relationship during the 2019 
Batch “C” Orientation Course at NYSC Orientation Camp Fanisau-Dutse, 
Jigawa State. Corps Members Oluwasegun Fabiyi Ayobami and his bride 
Oluwaferanmi Daramola Joy, expressed satisfaction and gratitude to 
the Lord Almighty for making it possible especially the unquantifiable 
role of the NYSC Scheme in the provision of the atmosphere for them to 
meet.  
The wedding took place in the presence of both families and some 
officials of the NYSC. This has gone down in the history book of the 
Scheme as one of the achievements so far recorded aimed at bringing 
unity and cohesion among various ethnic groups in the country. The 
groom hails from Idofin Aye-Kole, Oke-Ero Local Government of Kwara 
                                                           19 NYSC News, A Journal of NYSC Directorate Headquarters,“When my Husband 
ask me out, I didn’t take him Serious”, 2020, p120. 20 NYSC News, A Journal of NYSC Directorate..p121 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                              M. L. Murtala 
174 
 
State, while the bride is from Ekinirin-Adde in Ijumu Local Government 
Area of Kogi State. 
In the area of inter-marriages among corps members generally, the 
NYSC can be said to have significantly achieved to a greater extent, 
deducing from the above. The number of the recorded inter-ethnic and 
inter-religious marriages is sizeable that cannot be exhausted in one 
paper, however, one important aspect about this discourse worthy of 
note is that, aside from the usual verbal encouragement by the NYSC for 
corps members to exploit the opportunity of getting spouses from 
ethnic backgrounds other than theirs, the Scheme as noted above 
provide incentives for those corps members involve in support of their 
marriage. This in earnest contributed to the actualization of the 
national integration agenda for the creation of the NYSC. 
 
Conclusion  
From the above narrative, therefore, the paper had extensively brought 
to the limelight the tremendous contribution of the NYSC Scheme in the 
promotion of national unity and cohesion through inter-ethnic 
marriages. The paper gave the background to the exigencies that 
informed the effort of the then-Federal Military Government’s search 
for national unity and integration among the various ethnic groups in 
the country. It was traced further, right from the period of 1914 
amalgamation by the colonial powers up to the days of the Civil War of 
1967-1970 that shattered the already fragile nature of the country’s 
unity. This, therefore, necessitated the intensification of the call for 
unity, inter-ethnic tolerance, promotion of social cohesion, of which the 
creation of the NYSC scheme was part. The paper interrogates some of 
the recorded incidences of inter-ethnic marriages among corps 
members, a sizeable number of people responded with their 
experiences that up till today they are still praising the role of the NYSC 
in making it a reality in their lives. We can therefore deduce from the 
above analysis that the role of the NYSC significantly speaking, towards 
national integration is achieved.  
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Inter-Ethnic Marriages and National Integration: 
175 
 
Bibliography 
 
Agunloye S, “NYSC Policy Revisited”, Sunday Times, November 1974. 
Ajayi S A, “Nigeria and the Search for National Integration: Tapping 
from the Pre-Colonial Inter-group Relations”, Journal of 
Historical Society of Nigeria, Vol. 16 (2005). 
Davis T J, andKalu-Nwiwu A, “Education, Ethnicity and National 
Integration in the History of Nigeria: Continuing Problem’s of 
Africa’s Colonial Legacy,” The Journal of Negro History Vol 86, 
No. 1 (2001): 1, accessed March 16, 2021, 
URLhttp://www.jstor.org/stable/1350175. 
Enegwea G, and Umoden G, NYSC: Twenty Years of National Service, 
(Lagos: Gabumo Publishing Company LTD, 1993). 
General Yakubu Gowon, Nigeria’s Military Head of State (1966-1975), 
during the formal inauguration of the NYSC Dirctorate, June 4, 
1973, in Ebenezer Obadare, Satism, “Youth and Civic 
Imagination: A Critical Study of the National Youth Service 
Corps (NYSC) Programme in Nigeria”, in “ Research Project of 
the Center for Social Development Global service Institute”, 
George Warren Brown School of Social Work, Washington 
University, 2005. 
Jude Amile, 33 years, Business, Kaduna, March 19, 2021. 
Mackson Simon, “Theory of Inter-Marriage and Assimilation” (Oxford: 
Oxford University Press, 1951), 75 in Oxford University Journal, 
http://www.jstor.org/stable/2572762. 
MareninOtwin, “National Service and National Conciousness in 
Nigeria”, The Journal of Modern African Studies, Vol. 17, No 4 
(1979). 
National Youth Service Corps  Year Book, NYSC 40TH Anniversary 
Edition, 2013. 
New World Encyclopedia, https://www.newworldencyclopedia.org/ 
entry/Intermarriage.  
News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), “ NYSC DG Encourages Corps Members 
to Inter-Marry”, Economic Confidential, 21 June, 2019, in Media 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                              M. L. Murtala 
176 
 
Assessment: Shuaibu Ibrahim’s Silent Revolution in NYSC, Vol 1, 
2020. 
NYSC News, A Journal of NYSC Directorate Headquarters, “I Me My Wife 
Through the NYSC, HRH Ovie Omeleh, 2019. 
Obadare Ebenezer, Satism, “Youth and Civic Imagination: A Critical 
Study of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Programme 
in Nigeria”, in “ Research Project of the Center for Social 
Development Global service Institute”, George Warren Brown 
School of Social Work, Washington University, 2005. 
OtumalahOnah, 34 years, Lecturer, Nigerian Defence Academy, 
March18, 2121. 
Smits Jeroen, “Ethnic Intermarriage and Social Cohesion: What can we 
learn from Yugoslavia”? Nijmegen Center of Economics, 
Institute for Management Research, Radboud University 
Nijmegen, The Netherlands, (2009), doi:10.1007/s11205-009-
9485-y 
Wada Safiya Abu, 29 years, PhD Student, Interviewed at Kaduna, March 
16, 2021. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Strategic Importance of NYSC to National Integration in Nigeria 
177 
 
 1212 1212    
    Strategic Importance of NYSC to National Integration 
in Nigeria 
 
 
Jamiu Yusuf Danga 
 
 
Introduction 
National integration is a continuously evolving project that 
multicultural and multi-religious groups pursue. Nigeria is an example 
of a diverse society with multiethnic divisions, attempts to manage 
Nigeria’s diversity has lingered since amalgamation of the various 
polities in 1914. Yet, threats to its corporate existence remain as a 
result of hyper ethnic enthusiast, economic inequality and political 
rhetoric. It has been argued that Nigeria struggles with national 
integration because of its multiethnic and multi-religious compositions.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                J. Y. Danga 
178 
 
Attempts at managing Nigerian nationhood have been evolved by 
various governments since its independence in 1960. However, failure 
to properly manage the diversity led to the Nigerian civil war which 
lasted for thirty months (1967-1970). The loss of lives and properties 
and the horrors of the civil war were not lost on Nigerians and their 
leaders.  
The National Youth Service Corps is an enduring institution that 
highlights the resolve of the Nigerian state to forge national integration. 
Founded in 1973 on the aftermath of the civil war, the Scheme has 
continued to serve as a strong force for national integration. Through a 
combination of sources, this paper describes the strategic importance 
of NYSC to national integration. The paper argues that the scheme 
through its various programmes such as community development 
service, posting of Corps members and staff to different geographical 
locations other than theirs, intermarriage and awareness programme 
of the NYSC, the scheme has strengthened national integration in 
Nigeria.  
 
Conceptual Clarification 
Smock and Bentsi-Enchil describe national integration as the 
development of identification with the national community that 
supersedes in certain situations more parochial loyalties.1 Coleman and 
Rosberg view integration as the progressive lessening of ethnic, 
cultural and regional tensions and discontinuities in the process of 
creating a homogenous political community.2 Gurpreet Kaur defined 
“national integration is the creation of a feeling of oneness where the 
diversities are recognized and respected by imbibing a sense of 
                                                           1 D.R. Smock and K. Bentsi-Enchill, _eds.) The Search for National Integration in 
Africa. (New York: The Free Press, 1976) 2 J. Coleman and C Rosberg (eds.) Integration in Tropical Africa. (Berkeley and Los 
Angeles: University of California Press, 1964) 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Strategic Importance of NYSC to National Integration in Nigeria 
179 
 
nationhood”3 Integration ultimate aim is to create a multicultural, 
pluralist society.4 
Mazrui observes that the five major aspects of national integration 
includes; the fusion of norms and culture; the promotion of social 
independence; the narrowing of the gap between the elites and the 
masses, the urban and the rural areas, rich or poor etc, the resolution of 
emergent conflicts, and the sharing of mutual experiences so that 
people can discover that they had undergone some important 
experiences together.5 
For there to be national integration, there must be a central authority 
to serve as a rallying point. In the quest for national integration, 
citizens are expected to respect the overriding supremacy of the 
national government.6 This entails subordination of institutions and 
cultural values to the demands of the central authority. Often, intra and 
interethnic crisis result in tasking the state’s security apparatus. The 
ability of the state to resolve or regulate the recurring crises and to 
create an enabling environment where the people’s respect and love 
for their nation is enhanced would definitely affect the tempo of the 
nation’s integration positively. National integration, thus, covers a vast 
range of human relationships and attitudes, the integration of diverse 
and discrete cultural loyalties and the development of a sense of 
                                                           3G. Kaur. “Understanding National Integration and Challenges in Its 
Way.”Educationia Confab, Vol 2 (No.9) (2013) 4L. Fekete Integration, Islamophobia and civil rights in Europe.( Institute of Race 
Relations. Upstream Ltd. London. . 2008.) 5A. Mazrui, Cultural Engineering and Nation-building in East Africa,(North-Western 
University Press, Evanston, 1983) 6R. ODode, “Incidents of Hostage Taking and the Niger Delta Crisis in Nigeria. 
South-South Journal of. Culture and Development, 9 (1) . (2007). 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                J. Y. Danga 
180 
 
nationality; the integration of the rulers and the ruled and the 
integration of the citizens into a common political process.7 
In this paper, national integration is in essence the act of bringing 
people from diverse background and culture to be united, yet at the 
same time keeping their original identity without changing it. It is a 
highly normative concept consisting of complex and multi layered 
economic, social and cultural practices especially when applied in the 
context of nation-building. 
 
Various Phases Of The NYSC Progamme 
There are four cardinal programmes of the National Youth Service 
Corps, and they are as follows: 
 
Orientation Programme: The Orientation Course provides the first 
venue for affecting the desired change of attitude, as participants 
receive training in preparation for their next assignment of selfless and 
patriotic service to their fatherland. The Orientation Course usually 
holds for three weeks or 21 days. The purpose of the course is also to 
introduce corps members to and familiarize them with the ideals of the 
youth corps scheme. It is compulsory for every participant to be 
inducted through orientation training before service; nobody joins the 
service prior to orientation. At the end of the course, corps members 
are given posting letters to their various places of primary assignment. 
 
Primary Assignment: The NYSC takes care to avoid posting that result 
in wastage of human resources. Corps members are therefore, as much 
as possible; posted to areas relevant to their discipline although 
sometimes national need may override this consideration. Wrong 
                                                           7O. Aluko U. Idowu, Usman Sayuti- “Visiting the Hippopotamus: National 
Integration Issues in Nigeria”Romanian Journal of Regional Science Association 
16(1) (2016): 67-85 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Strategic Importance of NYSC to National Integration in Nigeria 
181 
 
posting or under-utilization of corps members, when established is 
corrected through reposting by the state NYSC secretariat.  
 
Community Development Service (CDS): In identifying with the 
current national objectives, the NYSC CDS has ventured into agriculture 
thus several corps members who specialize in agriculture and allied 
disciplines and posted within the same locality are organized to work 
in rotational schedules on the farms. Furthermore, the generality of 
corps members are expected to undertake a year round basis in 
addition to their primary assignment, at least one community 
development project in their neighborhood, in groups. After the 
consultation with the community people. 
 
NYSC as an Ideology Based Tool for National Integration  
The ideology-based frame of NYSC is as a result of the existing 
structure and mode of operation as stressed in the establishing decree 
of the scheme. Indeed, NYSC appears to prioritize the ideas, opinions, 
and beliefs of the Nigerian society. It legitimizes the need for national 
integration, by constructing within it images, words, narratives and 
symbols that stress national unity. It is not a coincidence that the logo 
of the NYSC has the map, and flag of Nigeria and a torch that shows the 
huge task the scheme carried. Furthermore, the NYSC theme song is 
constructed to serve as a beckon to national service: 
Youths obey the clarion call 
Let us lift our nation high 
Under the sun or in the rain 
With dedication and selflessness 
Nigeria is ours, Nigeria we serve 
 
The NYSC anthem urges youths to come as people duty bound to 
respond to the call of the country, this is regardless of their 
background, identity and affiliations, It seeks to appeal to the patriotic 
zeal of the youths, to serve the country with honor, dedication and 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                J. Y. Danga 
182 
 
selflessness. This is in line with the strategy for forging national 
integration and nation building which according to Musa Hitam goes 
beyond constructing physical infrastructures.8 According to Hitam, 
nation building includes weaving together national values for the 
citizenry to live by and devising greater missions to galvanize the spirit 
of unity.9 Such high values are aimed at creating a true sense of unity 
among the populace.  
Theoretical underpinnings of national integration are critical to the 
understanding of the strategic role NYSC plays. Mazrui identified five 
interrelated aspects of national integration, of which the one he 
stressed the most is fusion of norms and culture. This can be achieved 
by stressing the linkages which facilitate connections such as 
understanding of languages, norms and morals. The NYSC scheme 
facilitates connections between disparate communities and 
consequently encourages interaction between groups, and facilitates 
national identification and integrative tendencies. 
Heidmets’ proposition for national integration is central to 
understanding the role of NYSC. He stressed four models of integration 
namely; assimilation, integration, separation and confrontation.10 
Nations that adopt the integration, like Nigeria means a significant 
number of citizens must develop identification with the nation that 
supersede identification with ethnic, cultural or religious group, 
acquire political awareness, share common norms and values and 
develop attitudes favorable to the display of integrative behavior 
among people of different groups. NYSC serves these multiple 
purposes; indeed a subsection of the establishing Act addresses these 
issues of identity inter alia: 
                                                           8 Musa Hitam“Introduction” Z. Ibrahim In Good FaithPetaling: ZI Publication 2007.  9Hitam Introduction p.7 10 M. HeidmetsIntegration of Minoritiesinto Estonian Society In Collection of 
Materials Disantrek 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Strategic Importance of NYSC to National Integration in Nigeria 
183 
 
As far as possible, youths are assigned to jobs in states 
other than their states of origin and away from their 
geographical, ethnic and cultural background.; each 
group assigned to work are as representative of the 
country as possible; the youths are exposed to the 
modes of living of the people in different parts of the 
country with a view to removing prejudices, 
eliminating ignorance and confirming at first hand the 
many similarities among Nigerians of all ethnic 
groups.11 
Consequently, NYSC may be viewed as taking part in the multiple 
identity approach to integration. This approach stresses that the people 
of a nation sought to cultivate the sense of political unity among diverse 
ethnic groups, while at the same time upholding and maintaining the 
social structures and cultural norms that make the groups disparate. 
Proponents assume that the acceptance of common political 
institutions is sufficient to make cohesive the disparate groups.  
Multiculturalism which is understood as a system of beliefs and 
behaviors that recognizes and respects the presence of all diverse 
groups in an organization or society, acknowledges and values their 
socio-cultural differences, and encourages and enables their continued 
contribution within an inclusive cultural context which empowers all 
within the organization or society.  
The achievement of NYSC in encouraging national integration lies in the 
ability of the scheme to post Corps members across the federation to 
places they previously have no idea about in terms of their culture, 
social and political structure, without having fear of being unwelcomed 
or treated like strangers. The character of the NYSC scheme can 
therefore be described as favouring multicultural integration.  
                                                           11Umoden 158 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                J. Y. Danga 
184 
 
Strategic Importance of NYSC to National Integration 
There are several factors that contribute to the NYSC scheme as a 
strategic tool for national integration. These multiple factors are 
analyzed below: 
Deployment of Corps Members  
National integration from the perspective of the Inter-group contact 
theory believes that continuous interactions among members of the 
various groups would lead to improvement in relationships among 
them. It is a deliberate policy of the NYSC to deploy Corps Members to 
states other than theirs. According to Enegwea and Umoden, Corps 
member have no choice as to what state they would be deployed to.12 In 
fact they are to be posted to states other than their own state of origin. 
They add that the integrative purpose of the Scheme makes it 
necessary, therefore, Corps member are exposed to other parts of the 
country that they previously would have been ignorant about.13 Indeed, 
many Nigerians that passed through the youth service scheme are very 
appreciative of the chance they had to explore and learn about other 
cultures of the Nigeria. In fact, some persons went ahead to settle, 
marry and or relocate to their state of deployment after the Youth 
service.  
 
Officials drawn from different places 
Critical to the integrative force of the NYSC is the posting of staff and 
officials of the scheme to different parts of the Nigerian federation. This 
has fostered understanding of the various cultures of people of Nigeria 
it enhances the capacity of officials to promote the integrative objective 
of the NYSC scheme. This is valuable to the critical role they perform 
during and after orientation exercises.  
                                                           12Emegwea and UmodenNYSC: 20 Years p.23 13 There are exemptions to deployment on health, marital and compassionate 
grounds, so long as there are sufficient proof and documentations that satisfy the 
officials of the scheme.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Strategic Importance of NYSC to National Integration in Nigeria 
185 
 
Media Awareness programmes 
Media has a constructive role to play in national integration. The NYSC 
have multiple collaborations with various media outfits, where it airs 
programmes that promote issues bordering on national unity, health, 
environment and education. The role of media in the NYSC scheme is 
very critical, as the barrier of space and time is being broken by new 
media which uses the internet to reach out to a vast number of people 
through channels like Google, Facebook, Instagram and Whatsapp 
among others. 
 The NYSC has tremendously used media as an avenue for promoting 
national integration. Some of the media programmes include the 
follow: 
• National builders (Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria-FRCN) 
• NYSC Half Hour (multiple radios across the federation) 
• U-Report 
In 2019, the Director General of NYSC, Shuaibu Ibrahim announced that 
the NYSC is pursuing a license to establish a radio station in Abuja. 
According the Director General, the idea of establishing the station 
would help to develop potentials of Corps Members and educate the 
general public about the workings of the Scheme. 
This is not surprising that the NYSC have used the media to increase 
awareness of the public on various activities for inter-ethnic 
interaction. However, the low sensational appeal of the programmes of 
NYSC media programmes has sometimes led to some of the 
programmes not resonating among youths, during their youth services, 
individual presenters in radio and television stations have used their 
platforms to promote national integration. 
 
Community Development Service (CDS) 
The NYSC has used its various CDS groups to contribute to national 
integration. CDS groups such as drama troupe and anti-corruption have 
used the avenue to promote national integration by stressing the 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                J. Y. Danga 
186 
 
desired patriotic behaviour that can move Nigeria forward. Through 
the CDS, members of the Service Corps work with the local 
communities to promote self-reliance by systematically prospecting 
and executing development projects and programme which impact 
positively on the socio-economic development of the host 
communities.14 Some of the NYSC CDS groups include;  
• Corps Legal Aid Group (CLAG) 
• Cultural and Tourism Group (Band, Dance, Drama & Tourism) 
• Education Development Group (Mass Literacy, Adult Education, 
Extra Murals ICT) 
• Anti-Corruption Group (EFCC &ICPC) 
 
Physical training  
One of the ways the NYSC has promoted national integration is through 
fitness and healthiness. Corps members have participated in multiple 
awareness campaigns that use mass trekking, walking, hiking or 
marathon to highlight various areas of national integrations. Therefore, 
while keeping the citizens mentally aware and alert, the scheme has 
equally served as a tool for integration when it participates in many 
fitness activities.  
 
Intermarriage 
Intermarriage is a strategic contribution of NYSC to national 
integration. In fact, the NYSC has a definite objective to promote 
intermarriage among service Corps members, hence, the scheme set up 
incentives to promote intermarriage. There are monetary, and non-
monetary incentives put in place to ensure that Corps members are 
predisposed to getting married to other corps members during the 
service year. This strategic factor of national integration has gone a 
long way to promote inter ethnic harmony, unity and national 
development.  
                                                           14https://nysc.gov.ng/downloads/CDS_ABC.pdf 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Strategic Importance of NYSC to National Integration in Nigeria 
187 
 
The unifying factor of ethnic marriage is well noted by scholars. Alba 
observes that inter ethnic marriage is a force for integration in Europe, 
therefore blurring lines of century old divisions.15 Similarly, Okonji 
observes that interethnic marriage in Nigeria can serve as a panacea for 
development. Okonji averred that Inter-ethnic marriage would simply 
breed a population with plural ethnicity which would naturally nurture 
federative patriotism for both participating groups. Thus, affinal 
relationship can aid national restructuring that can reduce 
ethnocentrism in both Nigeria body politics and its economic 
adventure. The Nigerian government may want to encourage 
interethnic marriage through deliberate policy in favor of the 
participating partners or couples and their children.16 
 
Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) 
An aspect of national integration that is usually ignored is the SAED 
programme of the NYSC Scheme. The programme may serve economic 
purpose, yet it has integrative features. Through SAED many Corps 
members have started ventures in places other than theirs because of 
the economic prospect of those places. Corps member rely on their 
trainers in various corners of the country to help them acquire 
entrepreneurship skills that is beneficial to their life. In doing this, they 
do not have to go to their areas of birth or residence but where they are 
deployed. SAED has fostered economic dependencies and therefore 
promoted integration in Nigeria. As more entrepreneurs increased in 
Nigeria, they depend on various people for patronage; in doing this, the 
national unity and progress is strengthened.  
 
                                                           15 R. Alba “The Social significance of Intermarriage” Contemporary Jewry, Vol. 12, 
No. 1 (December 1991), pp. 9-19 16 P Okonji “National Unity and Inter-Ethnic Marriage between the Hausa and 
Yoruba in Ibadan North Local Government Area of Oyo State, Nigeria” 
International Journal of Scientific Research and Innovative Technology Vol. 5 No. 
10; (December 2018) 76-90 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                J. Y. Danga 
188 
 
Political participation  
According to an observer, NYSC saved Nigeria’s democracy from failing. 
The importance of democratic governance to national integration is 
well discussed given the nature of democracy as a system of rule by 
laws that protect the rights of citizens and limit the power of the 
government. Creating a strong nation-state in a heterogeneous society 
is an important focus of democracy. However, political ideology of 
desperation, rigging, and electoral violence previously threatened 
national integration in Nigeria. However, in the 2011 general election, 
the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) linked up with 
NYSC to deploy Corps members to serve as poll officials, that 
experiment proved very effective.  
The 2015 General Elections, in which the NYSC members served as ad-
hoc electoral officials, were adjudged one of the fairest in Nigerian 
history. The conduct of elections with Corps Members has greatly 
improved the prestige of the country. More so, the results of elections 
conducted with Corps members have tended to be accepted even in the 
highest courts of the land, proving the credibility of the NYSC. 
National integration is promoted in the face of fairness and equity, the 
plural nature of the Nigerian polity therefore provides opportunity for 
democratic governance through multiparty elections. The use of Corps 
members therefore was aimed at tapping in to the core philosophy of 
the scheme which stresses fairness, patriotism and unity. Since Corps 
members are serving in areas other than theirs, the tendency to be 
neutral in party politics is high, and this neutrality is a major factor that 
has greatly served as a positive tool in the conduct of Corps members in 
the various elections they have superintended. Indeed, they have given 
a credible account of themselves and they have been commended both 
locally and internationally. According to Osumah: 
Although INEC was statutorily charged with the 
responsibility of administering the elections, the 
commission had inadequate manpower to cover the 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Strategic Importance of NYSC to National Integration in Nigeria 
189 
 
election unaided. NYSC members were recruited as ad-
hoc staff to assist in the administration of polling 
stations, on the basis of the strategic collaboration 
between the NYSC and INEC (This Day 2015). INEC 
estimated that about 750 000 ad-hoc staff were needed 
to conduct the election (The Punch Editorial 2015). The 
NYSC corps members constituted a significant 
proportion of the personnel in all 36 states. The NYSC 
members demonstrated great courage and resilience 
during voter registration and polling-unit operations. 
Their resilience was particularly tested by mammoth 
crowds that were sometimes unruly, impatient, 
discontented and violent, following widespread 
challenges with card readers on election days. In the 
spirit of selflessness and patriotism, corps member 
operating polling units had to work late into the night. 
Indeed, international observers such as the African 
Union Election Observation Mission (AUEOM) and 
National Democratic Institute reported that corps 
members who served as ad-hoc polling personnel were 
highly professional and effective (AUEOM 2015, NDI 
2015).17 
Critical to this point is the need to stress that by conducting elections, 
the NYSC strengthen national integration.  If parties to an election do 
not feel cheated, the tendency to seek violent alternative is usually 
absent. Although, there are still cases of post electoral violence, the 
tendency is that it is unrelated to the actual conduct of elections; it is 
rather an expression of frustration by disgruntled politicians who will 
rather use the vicious cycle of violence as an expression of frustration.  
                                                           17 O. Osumah “Paradigm Shift: Youth Engagement in the Conduct of the 2015 
Elections in Nigeria” Journal of African Elections Volume 15 No 1 (2016): 1-24 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                J. Y. Danga 
190 
 
In essence, the NYSC participation in the conduct of elections has 
fostered national integration, increased the credibility of elections in 
Nigeria and greatly enhanced the national and international image of 
Nigeria. The implication for national integration is that an aspect of 
division that threatens the country’s national unity is greatly reduced. 
As INEC and NYSC collaborate to strengthen elections, it helps the 
country’s nation building efforts.  
 
Threats to NYSC as a Force for National Integration 
Insecurity  
The rising spate of insecurity in Nigeria has threatened the sustainable 
role NYSC plays in national integration. Several Corps members have 
regrettably been killed in the line of service to their fatherland. During 
election cycles, increased violence has sometimes threatened the lives 
of Corps members. Although, the NYSC have put up strategies to reduce 
the threat against Corps members by redeploying Corps members to 
areas with less risk, as the insurgency raged on since 2009 in the North 
East, there has been a relocation of camping from states like Borno, 
Adamawa and Yobe to other camps across Nigeria.  
 
Political Rhetoric 
Despite the noble efforts of the NYSC scheme, the main challenge to 
national integration lies in the negative rhetoric of politicians across 
the nation. There is a tendency to call on ethnic divisionism to score 
cheap political points in Nigeria. Furthermore, ethnic militias have 
sprung up to challenge Nigeria’s nationhood, including groups like 
Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Movement for the Emancipation of 
Niger Delta (MEND) and Boko Haram among others. 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Strategic Importance of NYSC to National Integration in Nigeria 
191 
 
Conclusion  
National integration is a process that seeks to unite people of different 
ethnic, cultural, religious, and socio-economic backgrounds for 
reciprocally beneficial goals. Correspondingly, it occurs when people 
from the same nation think, feel and care for one another and are 
willing to sacrifice the individual interest for the nation. National 
integration and nation building are essential to national development 
in Nigeria. Since 1973, the NYSC has continued to serve as the most 
potent tool for national integration. The posting of thousands of Corps 
members annually to various states that are not theirs have greatly 
contributed to building national consciousness, national integration 
and nation building. This strategy of sending large number of youths to 
different parts of the country has been viewed as relevant to national 
integration. The movement of mass populations into different regions 
of a country is a significant way of achieving integration between a 
people and its territory, and also among different groups within the 
population.18 
Similarly, Deutsch explains that when a community experiences many 
transactions the people who have experienced these transactions will 
like them. If these transactions were rewarded, the image of the 
community may be strongly positive. He says the perception of a sense 
of community allowed diverse groups to exchange norms, values and 
expressive symbols unconsciously. Thirdly, the spatial perspective sees 
integration as a function of the geographic distribution of people. This 
can be said of NYSC as many youths who recount their post service 
experience tend to stress the positive values they derive from the 
communities they have served and how this has improved their sense 
of nationality and unity.  
                                                           18A.  MabogunjeThe Development Process: A Spatial Perspective (New York: 
Holmes and Meyer, 1981) 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                J. Y. Danga 
192 
 
In conclusion, NYSC is a very strategic tool for national integration, 
from the conception, the establishing Act to the various programmes 
set up for the implementation of the objectives, the NYSC has served 
the dual purpose of a tool for national integration and an example of 
the outcome of a deliberate effort at forging national unity. In essence, 
it is important to reexamine NYSC, strengthen the institution and 
project the achievements of the scheme to highlight its critical 
importance to national integration.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Strategic Importance of NYSC to National Integration in Nigeria 
193 
 
Bibliography 
 
Alba R.  “The Social significance of Intermarriage” Contemporary Jewry, 
Vol. 12, No. 1 (December 1991), pp. 9-19 
Aluko O., Idowu, U. &SayutiUsman - “Visiting the Hippopotamus: 
National Integration Issues in Nigeria” Romanian Journal of 
Regional Science Association 16(1) (2016): 67-85 
ColemanJ.  and Rosberg C (eds.) Integration in Tropical Africa. (Berkeley 
and Los Angeles: University of California Press, 1964) 
Dode, R. O“Incidents of Hostage Taking and the Niger Delta Crisis in 
Nigeria. South-South Journal of. Culture and Development, 9 (1) . 
(2007). 
Enegwea G.  Umoden& G.  NYSC: Twenty Years of National Service 
Gabumo Publishing Company Ltd (1993) p.13 
Fekete L. Integration, Islamophobia and civil rights in Europe.( Institute 
of Race Relations. Upstream Ltd. London. . 2008.) 
Heidmets M. Integration of Minoritiesinto Estonian Society In Collection 
of Materials Disantrek 
https://nysc.gov.ng/downloads/CDS_ABC.pdf 
https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/more-news/355809-nysc-
to-establish-radio-station.html 
Kaur. G. “Understanding National Integration and Challenges in Its 
Way.” Educationia Confab, Vol 2 (No.9) (2013) 
Mabogunje A.  Development Process: A Spatial Perspective (New York: 
Holmes and Meyer, 1981) 
Mazrui, A.  Cultural Engineering and Nation-building in East Africa, 
(North-Western University Press, Evanston, 1983) 
Musa Hitam “Introduction” Z. Ibrahim In Good FaithPetaling: ZI 
Publication 2007.  
OkonjiP “National Unity and Inter-Ethnic Marriage between the Hausa 
and Yoruba in Ibadan North Local Government Area of Oyo 
State, Nigeria” International Journal of Scientific Research and 
Innovative Technology Vol. 5 No. 10; (December 2018) 76-90 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                J. Y. Danga 
194 
 
Osumah O.  “Paradigm Shift: Youth Engagement in the Conduct of the 
2015 Elections in Nigeria” Journal of African Elections Volume 
15 No 1 (2016): 1-24 
 Smock D.R. and Bentsi-Enchill, K. (eds.) The Search for National 
Integration in Africa. (New York: The Free Press, 1976) 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Integration in Nigeria: The Way Forward 
195 
 
 1313 1313    
    National Integration in Nigeria:  
The Way Forward 
 
 
Dominic James Aboi 
 
 
Introduction 
Every nation is not perfect, the seemingly perfect ones have a long 
history of struggles that either have assisted them to develop or set 
them on the path towards sustainable development and progress. 
Nigeria is not an exception in this regard. By virtue of its ethnic and 
religious pluralism and multiple parties, the notion of compatibility and 
most importantly, integration plays a key role in the governance of a 
state like Nigeria. Therefore, this paper examines the nature, challenges 
and prospects of national integration in Nigeria. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                   D. J. Aboi 
196 
 
Background to the Struggle for Integration 
Most of sub-Saharan Africa at a point was not only physically 
conquered, or militarily subdued, its people were psychologically 
broken and made to feel less than them by the colonial masters through 
cultural differentiation and political imperialism. The colonialists in 
taking over the minds of the Africans in their colonies, structurally 
broke the people into zones for easy dissemination of their Indirect 
Rule System like we see in Nigeria (which is diametrically opposed to 
the French’s concept of Assimilation), and further emphasized this 
divide by way of ethnic grouping and physical features differencing 
where necessary.  
It was based on this divide and conquers mentality that the partitioning 
of Africa took place during the Berlin Conference of 1884-1885, and 
African nations were parceled out to European countries like gifts. 
Nigeria, though surrounded by Francophone speaking countries was 
taken over by the British. The notion of nation-building and patriotism 
was created around the three major ethnic groups in Nigeria: Hausa, 
Yoruba and Igbo, representing the North, South and Eastern regions. 
The leaders representing these regions include Tafawa Balewa as the 
Northern Prime Minister (Sir Ahmadu Bello was seen as a spiritual 
father of the North); Akintola led the South and Nnamdi Azikiwe 
represented the East. 
This seeming perfect representation, though has overruled the 
autonomy of minority ethnic groups; captures the entirety of Nigerian 
leadership and the British capitalized on it to administer their 
relationship; be it socioeconomic, religious and political as colonial 
masters. But the leadership, as Will Durant once asserted, no 
civilization can be conquered from the outside, till it has been 
destroyed from within, started having glitches within the matrix of its 
relationship as vices like nepotism, maladministration, unnecessary 
squandering of public funds on luxurious goods; and the leadership 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Integration in Nigeria: The Way Forward 
197 
 
headlong started wearing the dictatorial shoes of their former masters 
as the newly independent state.  
They became overwhelmed by the prospect of regional politics instead 
of holistically looking at leadership from a federalist position. The new 
persons in the corridors of power tasked themselves with the creation 
of followership cults and cabals rather than focusing on the progressive 
development of the country, and sustaining credible relationship 
abroad. Achebe in The Trouble with Nigeria weighs on the problems 
surrounding the abuse of power and succinctly argues that the Nigerian 
problem is squarely that of bad leadership1 . It is on the stroke of this 
failure that the leadership gave the military powers the impetus to 
strike and claim they were trying to restore the country to its initial 
glory.  
A coup was staged and the military took over power but the coup was 
allegedly lopsided because the North felt to be targeted and another 
counter-coup was staged and this time around the casualty was 
enormous on the Eastern side that it decided to secede to form the 
Republic of Biafra. This call of secession did not sit well with both the 
Nigerian and British government. That was the beginning of the 
Nigerian civil war (1967-1970). Lives were lost on both sides of the 
divide and hence the seeds of disunity, distrust and suspicions were 
sown; one region against the other, still in the same country.  The 
length and bloody outcome of the war was underestimated.  
Though Wole Soyinka, the first African writer to receive the Nobel Prize 
in Literature in 1986, had earlier on hinted on the this break up in his 
Independence play entitled A Dance of the Forest, attention was not 
brought to his prognostications, instead he was chided as a pessimist 
with a bleak vision for a young promising country. Soyinka himself was 
imprisoned for nearly two years during the war by the Nigerian state 
                                                           1Achebe, C. 1984. The Trouble with Nigeria. London: Heinemann Books, 1. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                   D. J. Aboi 
198 
 
for allegedly trying to procure firearms for the Biafran side2. With this 
soiling of truth and the harmony that once blossomed – in fact the war 
was seen as a struggle between the major religions in Nigeria: the 
predominant Islamic North and the Christian South/East. The loss of 
credible trust and food shortage brought about the loss of more lives 
and properties even when a ceasefire was declared after Biafra’s 
unprecedented and unconditional surrender.  
Many Biafrans – Easterners in this case, after the announcement of 
ceasefire were heading to the borders to cross into neighboring African 
countries where they believe they will be safe rather than be integrated 
or reunited into Nigeria. But the then government under the leadership 
of Yakubu Gowon who was perceived to be a balance between the 
warring side being that he is a Christian and at the same time a 
northerner, initiated the proverbial three Rs: reconciliation, 
reconstruction and rehabilitation. This is proverbial in the sense that 
the prospects of these three (3) Rs continue to elude the grasp of 
Nigeria since it was introduced. But it is its initiation that signaled the 
genesis of national integration and the call for One Nigeria. Partisan 
politics and politicians later capitalized on this maxim in order to 
solder or suture the fractured relationship among the regions. It is 
within the backdrop of these happenings and national crisis that 
structures of the NYSC were erected to foster unity, trust and progress 
among Nigerians and the future it hopes to build and achieve.  
In the event of a crisis, desperate solutions are not only created, but 
uncovered to salvage the disturbing situation. A good example of 
blurring the lines of discord and divide is the unification of Rwanda 
after the 1994 hundred days Massacre. Though critics argue that it has 
long been a bottled up frustration that spilled into the open in the form 
                                                           2 Soyinka, W. 1972. The Man Died . London: Rex Collins. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Integration in Nigeria: The Way Forward 
199 
 
of the massacre, now called the Rwandan Genocide, Nigeria in the 
present has so much to learn from its challenges and triumphs.  
The unification of Rwanda or integration of its warring regions called 
for the abolition of classifying Rwandans based on their origins or 
ethnic groups: Hutu, Tutsi or Twa who were the major actors in the 
crisis. Nigeria’s crisis was contained through the earlier adopted all-
embracing or inclusive scheme in the form of the NYSC to create 
peaceful platforms where almost every religion and ethnic group, be it 
popular or within minority ethnic groups, will be adequately 
represented.  
 
Nigeria is a growing and undergoing development but still nursing the 
setbacks and challenges of the so-called Third World country. In this 
wise, it is still faced with an unemployed population amidst poverty, 
mass illiteracy which could be relied upon to cause violence, 
unavailability of skilled labourers in certain fields, and these problems 
are compounded by the lack of socioeconomic infrastructural facilities, 
housing, water and sewage facilities, road, healthcare services, and 
effective communication system. Most of these problems are ongoing 
and need to be constantly addressed else they become detrimental to 
national growth and progress. 
In places, where they are more pronounced, the claims of government 
negligence will be echoed. It is the NYSC program that had in many 
instances act as a shock absorber, or an intervention project that 
interface with this forgone conclusion on the part of the masses who 
might think the government have neglected them. And most times, if it 
is ill-conceived, the footprints of ethno-religious divide will begin to 
appear and in the way, trust will be lost and the integration policies 
that are supposed to push the country forward will be hampered with.  
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                   D. J. Aboi 
200 
 
The CDS Groups as Small Units of Integration 
Community Development Service (CDS) groups are small units under 
the NYSC scheme that meet regularly to discuss projects they must 
embark on in order to assist their communities where they are serving, 
in other words, how they could develop their Place of Primary 
Assignment (PPA) and host communities. These small units are 
reflective of larger governmental bodies like the Federal Road Safety 
Commission, Economic and Financial Crime Commission, the Red 
Cross, among other segments that perform similar functions within 
their capacities, but most times are in the service of providing 
enlightenment with regards to the sectors they represent.  
These CDS programs oblige youths or Corps Members to undertake at 
least one Community Development (CD) project that will be beneficial 
to their host community. This makes Corps Members to be adequately 
involved in the affairs of their community, and will encourage 
integration, because bright minds share different points of views that 
can lead to mutual progress and understanding. Through these bonds, 
structures like market stalls, clinics, roads, gutters, drainages, public 
boreholes among other development plans are hatched and brought to 
fruition. Akume et al in Arubayi (2015: 90) asserts that:  
The CDS requires Corps Members to use their acquired 
skills to provide services like education, health care 
delivery, rural infrastructural and community 
development, agriculture, science and technology, and 
enlightenment campaign for the benefit of their host 
community…As such, ensuring the success of the CDS 
imposes the Corps Members to wear a spirit coded 
with dedication and enthusiasm irrespective of the 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Integration in Nigeria: The Way Forward 
201 
 
challenges they may face in so far as they are not life-
threatening3.  
This call to duty and shouldering of responsibilities brings about 
academic tailor-ship and the embroidery of ideas that end up 
producing a beautiful garment of understanding among groups, and 
that in itself is a stepping stone toward integration. The NYSC’s idea of 
integration is contingent on collaborations offered by Corps Members. 
It is in the light of this apprenticeship where individuals are taught 
skills that could be transferred to other regions where they might be 
deficient and by so doing create new markets.  
This kind of initiative is illustrated in the NYSC’s collaboration with the 
Office of the Senior Special Assistant on Millennium Development Goals 
(OSSAPMDGs now SDGs) of the Presidency among other international 
partners like the British Council and World Bank in training Corps 
Volunteers as Development Knowledge Facilitators (DKFs)4. This gives 
Corps Members in determining their future as they are involved in 
grassroots projects and corporations that are instrumental to not only 
their well-being but that of their communities. The involvement of 
Corps Members as primary bridges between new policies and the 
people aids development across facets of the society. 
                                                           3 Arubayi, D. O. 2015. Youth in Development: Understanding the Contributions of 
the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) to Nigeria’s National Development, an 
unpublished PhD thesis submitted to School of Environment, Education and 
Development (SEED), Institute of Development Policy and Management (IDPM), 
90. See also, Akume, A.T., Solomon, M. Mohammed, O.A. 2012. Conflict, the NYSC 
Programme and the Question of Policy Relevance in Present Day Nigeria: An 
Assessment. In, Abdulrahman, D.A., Ogundiya, I.S. Garba, T., Dankani, I.M. (eds.) 
(2012): 50years of Nigeria’s Nationhood: Issues and Challenges for Sustainable 
Development. Ibadan: Crown F. Publishers.  4Eboh, E. 2010. MDGs-Based Planning in Africa: Lessons, Experiences and 
Challenges: A case Study of Nigeria. Addis Ababa: UNECA, Holmes, R., Akinrimisi, 
B., Morgan, J., Buck, R. 2012. Social Protection in Nigeria: Mapping Programmes 
and their effectiveness. London: Overseas Development Institute.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                   D. J. Aboi 
202 
 
 Such collaborations bring initiatives like War Against Poverty (WAP), 
Family and Community Life Reorientation Programme (FACOR) and 
the MDGs, SDG’s, Advocacy Creation Programme (MACR), together and 
the diverse group involve further integrate the country and spark new 
approaches towards lasting peace and development in the country5 .  
The development of any independent country lies in the hands of its 
youth. The universities and other tertiary institutions could be the 
cathedrals of knowledge but the NYSC creates platforms where the true 
potentials of future leaders can be examined and tested. NYSC Corps 
Members who have been able to secure leadership positions within the 
intricacies of multiple ethnic groups, diverse faiths and political 
persuasion have shown their ability to rule the nation because the 
federal character within the NYSC is enough to build credible leaders of 
tomorrow.  
In order words, the integration policies of Nigeria have been tested 
using this platform and could be used to test new ideas as any response 
negative or positive will be a litmus paper test reaction that will be 
expected from Nigerians. This is because the totality of what Nigeria, its 
youth, ideology and visions today, is being adequately mediated and 
represented by the NYSC. In other words, the youths or graduates 
working together in the spirit of oneness have found ways of 
accommodating each other’s excesses, and therefore built tolerance 
across other facets of life and living together.  
 
 
 
 
                                                           5NYSC,2008. National Youth Service Corps: Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs): NYSC Family and Community Life Reorientation Modules for Upper 
Primary and Lower Secondary School Pupils. Abuja: National Youth Service Corps 
Service, Nigeria.  
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Integration in Nigeria: The Way Forward 
203 
 
The Engagements of the NYSC as a Body 
It should be noted that the purpose of the scheme is primarily to 
inculcate in Nigerian Youths the spirit of selfless service to the 
community (nation) and to emphasize the spirit of togetherness and 
brotherhood among Nigerians, regardless of their sociocultural 
backgrounds. This is because cultural and geographical entity cannot 
exist in a vacuum. The NYSC’s mandatory one year requires graduates 
to participate in community development services as a way of 
contributing to the fatherland. This is a veritable tool that could be 
harnessed towards national integration and development and 
sustainable progress within the Nigerian state. Adam Smith’s law 
governing dynamics for instance, claims that the best result is achieved 
when everyone in the group does what is best for him and the group.  
Nigeria in taking the NYSC approach by bringing individuals from 
different backgrounds, religions, political persuasions and ethnic 
affiliations, can benefit so much from this initiative if these individuals 
can give the best of themselves through their various professions to the 
Nigerian state.  A cross-pollination of ideas will surely give birth to the 
most remarkable results and meaningful progress can be achieved and 
could be built upon for future development and national growth. It is 
worthy of note to reiterate that when the NYSC was established on the 
strength of decree No.24 of 22nd May of 1973 with a view to properly 
encourage and develop common ties among the youths of Nigeria and 
the promotion of national unity, its mission statement reads: 
“To mobilize and groom graduate youths for the 
promotion of national unity, sustainable development, 
self-reliance and prepare them for the challenges of 
leadership” 
The practicalities of performance are the key ingredients in the 
integration project as a promising initiative built to be an all-inclusive 
leadership structure and platform. The notion of credible positive 
leadership committed to unity is at the fore of its goals. This is to 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                   D. J. Aboi 
204 
 
develop individual minds that value nationalism, patriotism and 
accountable leadership indiscriminate of ethnic, religious and political 
affiliations or differences. This rings true in the words of Booker T. 
Washington during “The Atlanta Exposition Address” as found in his 
memoire Up from Slavery where he encourages African Americans to 
work with their fellow white Americans despite the bitter past of 
slavery and hundreds of years of servitude6.  
Washington encourages African Americans that in terms of all things 
essential to mutual progress, they should all be equal as the hand. It is 
not coincidental that individual contributions could lead to national 
and collective progress that John F. Kennedy, America’s youngest and 
35th democratically elected President insisted that Americans should 
think not on what their country could do for them, but what they could 
do for their country.  
This selfless spirit geared towards contributing to the development of 
communities where NYSC Corps Members are domicile does not only 
promote regional growth it fosters national integration because it 
brings out the best in individuals at regions that have no claims to their 
origin or genealogy. This helps members of certain communities to 
wipe clean the stereotypical postulations they once held, even grudges 
in some quarters, about the behavior of certain ethnic groups or region. 
It offers the opportunity for individuals to get to know and understand 
themselves properly. And it is only right to state that once individuals 
have full knowledge of themselves, an understanding is established 
among them, and it is this understanding that brings about tolerance or 
one another alongside their excesses. Once this trust and compatibility 
is enshrined, the fruits that come with integration and national 
development can be yielded.   
                                                           6 Washington, B. T. (2013). Up from Slavery: An Autobiography . New York: 
Seahorse Publishing, 292. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Integration in Nigeria: The Way Forward 
205 
 
Community development projects have been executed by so many 
members of the NYSC and these projects brought smiles on the faces of 
Nigerians. For instance, corps doctors have organized Health 
Campaigns (Outreaches) workshops where difficult kinds of ailments 
and diseases have been tackled and more serious cases have been 
referred to General or Teaching Hospitals for further treatment. These 
are individual efforts that have become public due to the nature of its 
outreach and the lives that have been positively touched and changed. 
If Nigeria could borrow a page from the book of such kind of progress 
without paradoxically waiting for the government of the day to come 
and contribute to their communities, the rural and remotest parts of 
the country will immensely grow.  
The exodus to urban dwelling where supposedly successful people live 
will be cut short when medical or health reasons have been at the fore 
of most immigrants. On another note, there is a double-edged 
progression to individual commitment towards rural development 
when we consider one of the causes of migration from villages: medical 
or health concerns. If such projects are established, rural dwellers 
whose occupations are mostly farmers will remain at home to produce 
food for the state and by so doing, they cease to become liabilities to 
themselves and also relief the government from burden and the debt of 
dependence. In this wise, an uplifting or development in terms of rural 
standards of living cuts the influx of migrants to urban areas without 
the survival skills adequate to thrive in such environment. 
The yearlong service initiated with the creation of the NYSC has 
bridged the unemployment gap and curtailed antisocial vices among 
individuals and youth. It means instead of being somewhere engaging 
in non-development activities, their energy is given direction and 
purposes through various engagements provided by the NYSC. There 
are schools and other establishments both private and government 
owned that enjoy the services of the NYSC Corps Members.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                   D. J. Aboi 
206 
 
Some of these schools can either not employ or afford the salaries of 
teaches, or are located in remote areas that people do not want to work 
in, but with the integrational policy surrounding the NYSC where 
regardless of where an individual graduate is from, not minding social 
status or background, once the clarion call to duty and service of the 
fatherland is made, individuals are bound to respond, these schools and 
establishments get to function and students gets to have the services of 
qualified teachers to tutor and give them insight into their future 
dreams. It aids to harness economic integration as even the rural and 
public schools get to experience teaching from top graduates they 
would not have been able to afford, or that could only be accessed in 
rich or private schools and settings. 
This random selection of individuals to different places enables them to 
cope with what is available at their regions and enhances the 
conception of adaptation and the idea that when the desirable is not 
available; the available becomes the desirable. And thus, the shedding 
off of unnecessary expectations by all parties involved which helps 
prepare them for integration into the larger society as the less 
expectations they have coming off such programs, the readily available 
they are to seize on opportunities open to them. In fact, some graduates 
who have affected lives in remote villages help to share their 
experiences with others to estimate how fortunate they have been. This 
opens up the possibility and taking advantage to what life has offered 
to graduates, help individuals to survive in any given circumstances 
and also buttress the need to come together towards achieving a 
common purpose. This in itself emphasizes the need for patriotism 
which is very important in integration and nation-building.  
In looking at the prospect for national integration, one of the 
outstanding features of the NYSC is the distribution or mobilization 
(deployment) of individuals across regions to ensure federal character, 
in other words, it is a panoramic representation of all states which by 
extension is an even distribution of sociocultural groups across the 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Integration in Nigeria: The Way Forward 
207 
 
nation. This potpourri of ethnic grouping and individuals from diverse 
backgrounds and regions consolidate one of the ideals of federalism 
and fiscal distribution of national wealth.  
Graduates under the auspices of the NYSC are entitled to the same 
stipends or monetary allowances though certain professions due to the 
commitment needed in their fields are offered a little rise in pay,unifies 
the notion of equality and sense of belonging among individuals having 
seen justice being played out through the same justification for similar 
work done.  
That the NYSC conglomerates individuals from different fields of 
studies, religions and ethnicity unifies the country even in its diversity. 
If Nigeria as a country can borrow a page from the handbook of the 
NYSC, national issues like sectarian violence, inter-religious crisis and 
ethnic clashes will be reduced to a minimum or relegated to the 
background of national concerns. This is because diverse cultures, and 
traditions with regards to ethnic groups would rather celebrate their 
pluralism instead of their differences. Hence the popular maxim: unity 
in diversity. It will call for an interaction of similarities and the building 
of bonds instead of capitalizing on little areas that are detrimental to 
national integration, peaceful coexistence and sustainable 
development.  
National integration can be achieved through the NYSC’s concept of 
indefinite deployment of graduates which most often happens in the 
opposite direction of their states of origin. It is a popular adage that one 
should not throw stones in the market as one is likely to hit his mother 
or a relative. This is to say when individuals are mobilized across the 
country, the likelihood of some graduates with influential parents to be 
sent to remote or rural areas is high. The implication here is, it exposes 
the area or community, or bring attention to the failure of its 
government to develop it.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                   D. J. Aboi 
208 
 
For instance, a village without a clinic, flowing pipe borne water, 
electricity or good roads could be brought to the limelight when 
individuals connected to, or whose kin are responsible for its 
development are sent there. It also raises the question of fiscal 
responsibilities and how balanced are the allocations sent to certain 
regions alongside their needs and everyday challenges. On the other 
hand, indefinite posting will serve as a voice of caution for contractors 
and officials responsible for carrying out community development 
projects to play their parts as whatever they end up building as these 
legacies could end up being enjoyed by either their family members or 
relatives.  
The unpredictability of these postings to a large extent stimulates the 
notion of truth and fairness which is a major ingredient in national 
integration. Satyagraha to use the Sanskrit word used in Hinduism to 
mean being fair and steadfast in one’s dealings, or having a conscious 
and habitual disposition to be kind and doing the right thing is a 
veritable tool in both integration and national development. In this 
sense, justice is said to be the promotion of peace, not the absence of 
war. The NYSC approach in mobilizing individuals from different fields, 
states of origin – by extension diverse ethnic groups and social status, 
to different regions demonstrates a rigorous approach towards 
national integration, unity and progress while rising above differences 
and regional divides or ideologies.  
In spite of the various challenges arising with regards to security and 
how secure is the NYSC scheme, critics are asking if the NYSC has been 
achieving its aim of developing and creating common ties among 
Nigerian youths or its graduate, and of course the answer is a positive 
yes7. Ethnic divisions which have been fractures in the past has been 
                                                           7 Chukwuemeka, O. and Ani, J.K.  2014. The National Youth Service Corps 
programme and Growing Insecurity Threat in Nigeria. Africa;s Public Service 
Delivery and Performance Review. Vol. 2(2). pp. 6-7. See also, National Youth 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Integration in Nigeria: The Way Forward 
209 
 
sutured with technology also playing a vital role, ideas within NYSC 
platforms are shared and projects peculiar to certain regions are now 
shared, practiced and experienced across the federation.  
The success of the NYSC towards integrating the country, and a scheme 
which the country should hold strongly to should not be 
underestimated as it has brought about friendship among individuals 
and groups that would not ordinarily have contact, let alone become 
friends. It is worthy of note to mention the inter-tribal marriages that 
the scheme has soldered – including the monetary support it has 
extended to such unions, which to a large extent will help curb and 
prevent inter-ethnic or inter-religious crisis and tensions. In line with 
looking at the prospect for integration. 
 
Conclusion 
The NYSC therefore stands at the threshold with the renewed agitation 
or the secession of Biafra, the need for the NYSC remains high and 
illuminates the fact that the scheme is far from achieving its mission of 
fostering national integration. Based on the design of the NYSC, it is a 
good scheme and a great avenue to promote nationalism in Nigeria. 
The program has a lofty objective and has achieved some positive goals. 
Even with all its mistakes, there is still hope for the Nigerian National 
Youth Service Corps, but it is crucial that it be reviewed, updated, and 
better managed in order to preserve and strengthen the cause of 
national unity of integrating Nigerians of all religious and 
socioeconomic backgrounds and political persuasions toward national 
unity and sustainable development8.  
                                                                                                                                       
Service Corps – Official website, 2017 https://www.nysc.gov.ng/vision.html, 
National Youth Service Corps, 2021 Wikipedia 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Youth_Service_Corps 8Egunyomi, A. 2017. “The National Youth Service Corps: A Bridge to Nationalism in 
Nigeria.” Africa in Transition. https://www.cfr.org/blog/national-youth-service-
corps-bridge-nationalism-nigeria 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                                   D. J. Aboi 
210 
 
Reference 
Achebe, C. 1984. The Trouble with Nigeria. London: Heinemann Books.  
Arubayi, D. O. 2015. Youth in Development: Understanding the 
Contributions of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) to 
Nigeria’s National Development, an unpublished PhD thesis 
submitted to School of Environment, Education and 
Development (SEED), Institute of Development Policy and 
Management (IDPM).  
Akume, A.T., Solomon, M. Mohammed, O.A. 2012. Conflict, the NYSC 
Programme and the Question of Policy Relevance in Present 
Day Nigeria: An Assessment. In, Abdulrahman, D.A., Ogundiya, 
I.S. Garba, T., Dankani, I.M. (eds.) (2012): 50years of Nigeria’s 
Nationhood: Issues and Challenges for Sustainable 
Development. Ibadan: Crown F. Publishers.  
Chukwuemeka, O. and Ani, J.K.  2014. The National Youth Service Corps 
programme and Growing Insecurity Threat in Nigeria. Africa;s 
Public Service Delivery and Performance Review. Vol. 2(2). pp. 
6-7.  
Eboh, E. 2010. MDGs-Based Planning in Africa: Lessons, Experiences 
and Challenges: A case Study of Nigeria. Addis Ababa: UNECA.  
Egunyomi, A. 2017. “The National Youth Service Corps: A Bridge to 
Nationalism in Nigeria.” Africa in Transition. 
https://www.cfr.org/blog/national-youth-service-corps-
bridge-nationalism-nigeria 
Holmes, R., Akinrimisi, B., Morgan, J., Buck, R. 2012. Social Protection in 
Nigeria: Mapping Programmes and their effectiveness. London: 
Overseas Development Institute.  
National Youth Service Corps – Official website, 2017 
https://www.nysc.gov.ng/vision.html 
National Youth Service Corps, 2021 Wikipedia 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Youth_Service_Corps 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Integration in Nigeria: The Way Forward 
211 
 
NYSC, 2008. National Youth Service Corps: Millennium Development 
Goals (MDGs): NYSC Family and Community Life Reorientation 
Modules for Upper Primary and Lower Secondary School 
Pupils. Abuja: National Youth Service Corps Service, Nigeria.  
Washington, B. T. (2013). Up from Slavery: An Autobiography. New 
York: Seahorse Publishing. 
Soyinka, W. 1972. The Man Died. London: Rex Collins. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                               A. A. Ogidi 
212 
 
 1414 1414    
    Prospect of National Integration:  
The NYSC Approach 
 
 
Anthony A. Ogidi 
 
 
Introduction  
Nigeria is a country which has emerged from a historical consequence 
of foreign interference. Hence, her multi-ethnic, multi-lingual and multi 
religious status makes her a heterogeneous nation with such diversities 
which have impeded socio-political development over the years. The 
activities which characterized the pre, during and post-civil war era 
showed discord was sown in the minds of many Nigerians which 
warranted the need to probe the unity of Nigeria and the necessity of 
its continued existence as a heterogeneous state. Consequently, the 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Prospect of National Integration: The NYSC Approach 
213 
 
then military administration led by General Yakubu Gowon established 
the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) programme via Decree 24, 
issued on 22nd May, 1973, with a view to further realize the  national 
goals and objectives aimed at not only re-establishing Nigeria as: a 
united, strong and self-reliant nation; with a great and dynamic 
economy; a land of bright and full opportunities for all citizens; a free 
and democratic society, but also at fostering national integration 
amidst high level of mutual suspicions and hostility, through 
reconstruction, rebuilding, reconciliation mechanisms. The NYSC 
scheme, since then, has been driven in pursuance of the goal of "proper 
encouragement and development of common ties among the youths of 
Nigeria and the promotion of national unity"1 . This is in addition to 
other national integrative mechanisms adopted by successive 
governments. For example, the increment in the number of the federal 
unity schools, the Nigerianization Policy, National Language Policy, 
Federalism, Party Politics, New Federal Capital Territory, States and 
Local Governments Creation, revenue sharing formula/fiscal 
federalism, and establishment of the Federal Character Commission to 
among others promote, monitor and enforce compliance with the 
principles of the proportional sharing of all bureaucratic, economic, 
media and political posts at all levels of government. The idea behind 
the Federal Character policy was to foster peace, unity, equity in the 
distribution of the common wealth of the nation and ensure equal 
development by adequately integrating less advantaged parts of the 
country in the central affairs. However, the application of this policy 
has been frowned at given the activities of Ministries, Departments and 
Agencies (MDAs) and other public institutions on issues of recruitment, 
promotion etc2. Besides, some analysts have argued that the policy 
                                                           1 NYSC, “NYSC Magazine”, The Journal of NYSC Directorate Headquarters. Abuja: 
National Youth Service Corps Service (2014). 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                               A. A. Ogidi 
214 
 
engenders mutual mistrust and tend to breed instability as people 
continuously cry of marginalization.2 
About forty years after, Nigeria is still grappling with the issue of 
disunity; exemplified by hostility, mutual suspicion, religious 
intolerance, ethnic bigotry, communal clashes and the likes. The North, 
for instance, has been literarily thrown into a state of anarchy due the 
activities of the Boko Haram and the recent wake of armed banditry 
with increased rate of kidnapping. In some cases, NYSC members 
become victims by either being abducted or die in violent crises and 
thus unable to complete their service year. Consequently, Corps 
members tend to reject deployments to places of primary assignment 
believed to be very prone to violent crises or insurgency.  
Given the current ethno-religious and political crises that Nigeria is 
faced with, however, concerns have been raised about the capability 
and prospect of the NYSC to integrate Nigerians in line with the goal of 
the Decree and the Act establishing it, especially, with the 
pronouncement made by the House of Representatives on Tuesday, 
July 3, 2012, pressuring on the NYSC Headquarters to stop deployment 
of Corps Members to northern parts of the country believed to be 
volatile due to violent crises1 . Hence, there is need to carry out a study 
on the prospect of the NYSC to achieving national integration in Nigeria. 
Thus, this paper seeks to examine the prospect of NYSC Scheme in 
achieving national integration in Nigeria. This will be done by 
proffering answers to the following questions; (i) Is there any hope for 
effective national integration in Nigeria? Will the NYSC programme 
remain relevant in the scheme strategies for national integration in 
Nigeria in the nearby future? (ii) What can be done to make the NYSC 
                                                           2Ayoade, Jacob, “The Federal Character Principle and the Search for National 
Integration,” In Amuwo, K et al ed., Federalism and Poltical Restructuring in 
Nigeria, Ibadan: Spectrum Books Limited(1998): 101.  
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Prospect of National Integration: The NYSC Approach 
215 
 
programme realizes its desired goal(s)? The paper is divided into 7 
sections, viz: introductory, the concept of National Integration, the 
National Youth Service Corps as a tool for national integration, its 
objectives, prospect, conclusion and policy recommendations. 
 
Conceptual Clarification of National Integration 
The concept of nation is the process of constructing or structuring a 
national identity using the power of the state. The key idea behind any 
nation is the drive to building a national identity through the powers of 
the state. This process is intended for the unification of a people 
bonded by state so that they can remain politically stable and relevant 
on the global stage. This is why it becomes pertinent to reorient her 
consciousness by integrating confidence in her citizenry to pursue a 
united and integrated nation that is built on a sure foundation of her 
collective knowledge of socio-political, socio-cultural and socio-
economic facets of a nation with a view to engendering unity in 
diversity.  
The term National Integration has been used variously to mean 
national cohesion, national unity, and nation building. Is the process of 
unifying a multi-ethnic country, which does not necessarily mean 
unification into a single-ethnic country but into a united indivisible 
entity where primordial affiliations are made secondary for the greater 
good of the united nation.3 It can mean building of state institutions 
that can translate into policies and programmes and aspirations of the 
citizenry regardless of divergent social, economic, religious, ethnic and 
geographical elements which 3entails the translation of diffused and 
unorganized sentiments on nationalism into a spirit of citizenship. It is 
                                                           3Leke Abraham Oluwalogbon, “The Future of Nigeria’sNational Youth Service 
Corps Programme: Any Hope for National Integration?” Journal of Public 
Administration and Governance9, No. 2 (2019): 1.  
https:// doi:10.5296/jpag.v9i2.14312 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                               A. A. Ogidi 
216 
 
also about building institutions that possess the attributes of political 
entity. Such institutions may include; bureaucracy, economy, the 
judiciary, universities, civil service and civil society organizations. 
Defining national integration, Fatile and Adejuwon (2010) posit that it 
is the process whereby several disparate groups within a given 
territorial entity are united together or co-operate under conditions 
which do not appear to permit satisfaction of the system needs in any 
other way. Coleman and Rosberg, 1964 and Amienyi, 2005 all agreed 
that national integration is the progressive reduction of cultural and 
regional tensions and discontinuities in the process of creating a 
homogenous political community. This implies the shifting of 
sentiments of loyalty and political cohesion in the direction of central 
political authority and institutions whereby individuals can belong to 
different social groups or political unit. Morrison et al. were quite 
succinct in their argument that it is “a process by which members of a 
social system (citizens for our purpose) develop linkages and location 
so that the boundaries of the system persist over time and the 
boundaries of sub-systems become less consequential in affecting 
behavior. In this process members of the social system develop an 
escalating sequence of contact, cooperation, consensus and 
community” (Ojo, 2009). Morrison and Stevenson in Oluwalogbon 
(2019) define national integration as the degree of cohesion that binds 
members of social systems together, and is generally thought of in 
terms of the values, institutions and communications which facilitate 
escalating sequences of social contact, cooperation and consensus. 
Aremu (2018) described national integration as a process geared 
towards building a common sense of purpose, a sense of shared 
destiny, a collective imagination of belonging. 
 
The National Youth Service Corps Scheme in Perspective  
All aims and objectives of the NYSC are carved out to be mutually 
reinforcing to ensure systemic and institutional efficiency of the 
scheme and youth development in Nigeria. The expected outcomes of 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Prospect of National Integration: The NYSC Approach 
217 
 
youth participation in the NYSC programme includes but is not limited 
to psychosocial and character development (Bodley-Bond and Cronin, 
2013); interethnic tolerance through enhanced cognitive and 
perceptual shifts that seeks to eliminate discriminatory practices and 
manage conflicts (Olaiya, 2014). The National Directorate, headed by a 
Director-General, is responsible for drawing up detailed capability 
development programmes of training schedules and coordinating 
implementation with the governing boards of the State Committees 
(NYSC, 2004).  
The mobilization of eligible youth participants in the NYSC scheme is 
carried out by the National Directorate while the State Committees 
under the authority of State Coordinators are responsible for deploying 
mobilized corps members to places of critical national and community 
development needs. At the grassroots level, the operation of the 
scheme is supervised by the State Secretariat, Zonal Officers and the 
Local Government Inspectors. By and large, an average of 250,000 
graduates is mobilized by the NYSC for national service and community 
development (FMYD, 2013a). Mobilization of corps members is guided 
by two policies. They are deployment and posting policy. 
The NYSC deployment is the strategy used to expose corps members to 
the many similarities and diversities of cultures and traditions in other 
parts of the country, with a view to eliminating any inherent ethno-
religious prejudices and stereotypes (NYSC, 1999: 13). This is why the 
policy ensures that no corps member is posted to his’/her institution of 
graduation or local government of origin (NYSC, 2012). Corps members 
do not have a choice with regards to their state of deployment. 
However, there is a notable exception known as ‘concessional 
deployment’ in which corps members are redeployed on the grounds of 
health, marital and extreme compassionate reasons (NYSC, 1999, 
2012). Furthermore, the recent security challenge in some North 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                               A. A. Ogidi 
218 
 
Eastern states of the country is shaping deployment to this region and 
has currently made deployment to such states, an optional exercise.  
On the other hand, the NYSC posting is a strategy for deploying youth 
capabilities to areas of national development needs (NYSC, 2014). The 
posting strategy is usually applied at the state level to direct corps 
members’ capabilities and ensures maximum utilization of the youth 
capital. Of late, posting is particularly streamlined into four (4) priority 
sectors, namely: Agriculture, Health, Education and Infrastructure 
(FMYD, 2012).  
The continued existence of NYSC has been challenged by insecurity and 
the volatile nature of certain parts of the country. What characterized 
the April 16 presidential election result declaration in favour of the 
sitting President Jonathan in the year 2011, were violent crisis which 
erupted in Northern Nigeria, leading to the killing of some corps 
members serving at the time. About 11 corps members were killed and 
several other non-corps members too. Properties worth millions of 
naira were wantonly destroyed as a result of violence that engulfed 
some northern states. About 11 persons officially confirmed dead in 
Bauchi alone. However it was believed that the actual figure could not 
have been less than 25 with the same number of casualty or more in 
other states such as Kaduna, Kano, Adamawa, Nasarawa, Benue, 
Gombe, Sokoto, Plateau, Niger, Katsina among others (This Day 
Editorial, July 9, 2012). This is coupled with Boko Haram insurgency in 
the North East and the notorious armed banditry ravaging different 
parts of the country 
 
The Youth Capability Development Programmes (YCDPs) of the 
NYSC Scheme 
The NYSC scheme has four cardinal programmes, which include 
Orientation, Primary assignment, Community Development Service and 
Passing Out. Essentially, after mobilization and deployment to their 
states of national service, the corps members undergo a 3-week 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Prospect of National Integration: The NYSC Approach 
219 
 
orientation in a paramilitary camp setting where virtues of discipline 
and resilience are inculcated under a command structure. The 
orientation exercise affords youth corps members the opportunity to 
receive lectures from facilitators of different organizations including 
International Governmental Organizations (e.g. UNICEF, World Bank), 
Global Humanitarian Organizations (e.g. the Red Cross) and Nigerian 
Governmental Organizations (e.g. Economic and Financial Crimes 
Commission – EFCC) and multinationals.  
This is in addition to skills acquisition and entrepreneurship 
development programmes, language seminars, socio-cultural and 
traditional lectures, development workshops, career mentoring 
programmes and religious activities which are offered together with 
Man-O-War paramilitary training (NYSC, 2011). The expected 
outcomes of participating in these activities are to increase self-
discipline and opportunity for ethnic interaction; reduce fear of the 
unknown, enhance knowledge of the country’s development agenda, 
and imbibe the culture of professionalism (NYSC, 2008).  
Another cardinal programme of the NYSC is the Primary Assignment. At 
the end of the Orientation exercise, Corps Members are posted to their 
Places of Primary Assignment. Places of Primary Assignment (PPAs) 
are spaces that youths and their capabilities can be deployed or posted 
in Nigeria’s political economy. Although attempts are made to post 
corps members and utilize their capabilities in sectors relevant to their 
certified areas of specialization, national development needs very often 
override this consideration (NYSC, 2012). Service in PPA typically last 
for approximately eleven (11) months.  
The third cardinal area of the NYSC programme is the Community 
Development Service (CDS). The CDS programme of the NYSC scheme 
is basically aimed at harnessing the skills, creativity and innovativeness 
of Corps members (NYSC, 2014). The CDS programme gives the corps 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                               A. A. Ogidi 
220 
 
members the opportunity of identifying the needs of their host 
communities, and undertake at least one community development (CD) 
project that will be of great benefits to their host community (NYSC, 
2014). There are three types of CDS programme, and they include: (1) 
Year Round CDS (2) Individual CDS and; (3) Collaborative/partnership 
CDS (NYSC, 2012). Corps members are expected to directly get involved 
in community development in any form, be it construction of small 
bridges, primary health care centres, classroom blocks, market stalls, 
culverts etc. (NYSC, 2014). 
The forth and the last cardinal area of the NYSC is the Winding-up/ 
Passing Out activities. This programme of the NYSC is usually very brief 
and to certify that the corps member has been appraised and found to 
have adhered to the tenets of the other cardinal programmes of the 
NYSC and thus, rewarded with certificate for active participation in 
NYSC scheme (NYSC, 2011). This certification is a pre-requisite for 
employment in the political economy of Nigeria. No wonder, Sections 
11 and 12(1) of the NYSC decree of 1993 states that:  
(1)  The Directorate shall, on completion of a member of service corps 
unless such person is exempted under section 17 of this Decree, 
issue him with a Certificate of National Service which will contain 
such particulars as may be prescribed. 
(2)  For the purposes of employment anywhere in the Federation and 
before employment, it shall be the duty of every prospective 
employer to demand and obtain from any graduate of higher one 
of these instruments issued by the NYSC. 
 
Figure 1 illustrates the workforce that is directly involved in the 
implementation of the Youth Capability Development Programmes 
(YCDPs) of the NYSC Scheme. 
  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Prospect of National Integration: The NYSC Approach 
221 
 
Figure 14.1: The Organizational Chart of the NYSC 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Source: NYSC (2012: 15; 2014) 
 
 
Federal Ministry of Youth Development 
 Director General  
National Youth Service Corps (NYSC Directorate) 
Corps  
Certificati
on 
Ventur
e Mgt. 
Corps 
Welfare & 
Health 
Human 
Resour
ce 
Finance 
& 
Accoun
ts 
Procurement 
SAED ICT Planning 
Research & 
statistics 
CDS Corps 
Mobiliz
ation 
Area Offices  
State Secretariat  
Special PPRU, Legal, Internal 
Audit & Reforms 
General 
Service
s 
Zonal Offices 
LGA Offices 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                               A. A. Ogidi 
222 
 
The National Youth Service Corps as a Tool for National 
Integration 
The National Youth Service Corps, popularly known as NYSC was 
established under Decree 24 of 1973, issued on 22nd May 1973. This 
Decree was later revised to Decree No. 51 of 1993 and enacted as an act 
of parliament in the NYSC ACT, Cap. 84 of 2004 (NYSC, 1993, 2004) and 
is under the oversight of the Federal Ministry of Youth Development 
(FMYD, 2013a, 2013b). The goal of programme was to foster unity in 
the face of ethnic diversity and the height of hostility which resulted in 
the 30-month old civil war (1967-70). The Federal Military 
Government under the administration of General Yakubu Gowon at the 
time saw the urgent need to heal the nation of the emotional wounds 
inflicted on it by the war, having secured the victory over the failed 
attempt at secession by the Biafran nation, and subsequently came up 
with an instrument that will ensure a peaceful co-existence among all 
ethnic groups across the regions.  
The immediate task of the government of the day was to ‘engage in 
deliberate social engineering, designing programmes and pursuing 
policies meant to promote national unity, de-emphasize points of 
discord among constituent groups, and foster greater inter-ethnic 
understanding and harmony’ (Enegwea & Umoden cited in Obadare 
2010). The very first exercise upon inauguration of the programme 
witnessed a total of 2,634 youths participating from across the country. 
The need to engage the youth at such a time was based on the fact that 
they, above other groups, were considered as the viable change agents 
required for building a united Nigeria, and by the fact that such 
engagement will give the youth a sense of belonging, reduce youth 
unemployment and the emigration of young unskilled people from 
rural areas to urban areas as well as create in them a national 
consciousness that geared towards political, social, state and ethnic 
loyalties. This is coupled with the fact that the youths constitute a 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Prospect of National Integration: The NYSC Approach 
223 
 
dominant force for national mobilization and growth and therefore 
required an investment for their future.  
Table 14.1: The NYSC Core Mandates and Strategies for 
National Integration 
NYSC Objectives  Strategy  Proposed 
Outcomes  
Ensure the equitable 
distribution of members 
of the service corps and 
effective utilization of 
their skills in areas of 
national needs  
1. Mobilization and 
Deployment  
2. Orientation  
3. Skills Acquisition 
and 
Entrepreneurship  
4. Community 
Development Service 
(CDS)  
1. National 
integration  
2. Equality  
3. Capability usage  
4. Address national 
development needs  
That as far as possible, 
youths are assigned jobs 
in states other than their 
states of origin  
1. Intra-state 
deployment and 
career development  
2. Inter-state 
deployment 
1. Capability usage  
2. Economic 
development  
3. National 
consciousness, 
cultural 
integration, and 
nation-building  
That such group of 
youths assigned to work 
together is as 
representative of Nigeria 
as far as possible  
1. Deployment 
equality  
2. Intra-state 
deployment  
 
1. Equality  
2. Identity 
formation, 
recognition and 
representation  
That Nigerian youths are 
exposed to the modes of 
living in different parts of 
1. Value re-
orientation and 
leadership 
1. National 
integration and 
citizenship 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                               A. A. Ogidi 
224 
 
Nigeria  development  
2. Inter-state 
deployment  
 
development  
2. Enhanced 
interethnic 
awareness and 
cultural tolerance  
That the Nigerian youth 
is encouraged to eschew 
religious tolerance by 
accommodating religious 
differences  
1. Youth re-
orientation  
2. Inter-state and 
intra-state 
deployment  
3. Leadership 
Development  
 
1. Enhanced 
interethnic and 
religious tolerance  
2. Citizenship and 
leadership 
development  
3. Conflict 
management  
That members of the 
service corps are 
encouraged to seek at the 
end of their one-year 
national service, career 
employment all over 
Nigeria, thus prompting 
free movement of labour  
1. Intra-state 
placement and career 
development  
2. Youth transition  
3. NYSC certification  
 
1. Youth transition  
2. Enhanced 
employability  
3. Spatial labour 
mobility  
 
That employers are 
induced partly through 
their experience with 
members of the service 
corps to employ more 
readily and on a 
permanent basis, 
qualified Nigerians, 
irrespective of their state 
of origin  
1. Intra-state 
deployment  
2. National 
reorientation  
3. NYSC certification  
 
1. Youth transition  
2. Enhanced 
employability and 
retention in 
employment  
3. Induce work 
ethic . 
Source: NYSC (1993, 1999, 2004) 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Prospect of National Integration: The NYSC Approach 
225 
 
Prospects for National Integration 
Given the lofty objectives of the NYSC, its achievements and 
collaborative efforts with several agencies such as the Federal Road 
Safety Corps, NDLEA, INEC, etc., it is reasonable to believe that national 
integration in Nigeria is truly achievable, and of course, through the 
NYSC especially with the view to entrenching global best practices in 
line with: 
i. Sincere enforcement of the fight against corruption can build 
great confidence in the minds of the people. For instance, the 
NYSC can take advantage of its collaboration with the 
Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in the 
conduct of periodic elections in Nigeria by ensuring that all 
participating Corps members during general elections be as 
transparent as possible and never willing to be compromised 
by individuals or groups who tend to subvert election process 
in their personal interest. 
ii. There is often this very strong feeling that people have for their 
religion or language, not minding those of others. Consequently, 
strife or clash between different sects, religions, tribes, etc. 
becomes imminent. The ripple effect of such attitude is quite 
adverse on national unity and impedes on equal development. 
The NYSC may as well extend their collaborations to the 
National Orientation Agency to harp on advocacy for tolerance 
for one another’s religion. This can be done by deploying Corps 
members in such advocacy vanguard to schools where they can 
have maximum reach with limited effort. 
iii. A genuine commitment to implementation of policy thrust and 
not lips service has a way of building confidence towards 
integration.  
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                               A. A. Ogidi 
226 
 
Conclusion 
Nigeria’s yearning for national integration has been given several 
impetuses by successive administration. The NYSC as one of the major 
tools for this purpose has weathered several storms and has been able 
to stand the test of time. Through the NYSC scheme, several 
unprecedented achievements have been made. Walls of discords built 
over time have been demystified by the scheme. What is currently on 
ground as a measure of mutual trust and confidence among Nigerians 
and the diverse ethnic group and religious beliefs is quite appreciable. 
Today, the NYSC has enhanced and promoted inter-ethnic marriages 
among the youths of this nation. Corps members now reside relatively 
free in their states of deployment and own means of livelihood. Where 
certain manpower were hitherto lacking in the country, NYSC scheme 
now provides such manpower through its strategic posting. Nigerian 
youths that have passed through the scheme now have a better 
orientation of the people they hitherto knew nothing or have wrong 
impression about them. This paper has discussed the challenges faced 
in achieving the prospects of achieving national integration through the 
NYSC Scheme. 
 
Recommendations 
It is one thing to deploy young Nigerians to different parts of the 
country so as to engender national integration. However, it is another 
thing to ensure their safety in the course of discharging their duties to 
the fatherland. Therefore, it is recommended that adequate security be 
provided for the Corps members to enable them perform their duties 
without fear or favour. Agencies and policy makers charged with the 
responsibility of ensuring adequate security for Nigerians must not 
leave a stone unturned when it comes to protecting the lives of the 
Corps Members in particular and all Nigerians in general. 
  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Prospect of National Integration: The NYSC Approach 
227 
 
Reference  
 
Adeosun A. B., “Federal Character Principle and National Integration: A 
Critical Appraisal” International Journal of Politics and Good 
Governance 2 no.2 (2011): 1-13. 
Ayoade, Jacob, “The Federal Character Principle and the Search for 
National Integration,” In Amuwo, K et al (eds), Federalism and 
Poltical Restructuring in Nigeria, Ibadan: Spectrum Books 
Limited (1998): 101.  
Iyizoba, Williams,“Nigerian Youth Service Corps: An Evaluation of an 
Attempt to Foster National Unity in the Face of Ethnic 
Diversity”. The State University of New Jersey, Department of 
Sociology, Gradute School of Rutgers, New Jersey.Unpublished 
Ph.D Thesis.  
Fatai Aremu Ayinde, “National Youth Service Corps Programme and the 
Quest for National Integration: Issues for Policy Consideration,” 
Journal of Management and Social Sciences7 no. 1 (2018): 279-
296 
Fatile James and Adejuwon, Kolawole, “Ethnicity and National 
Integration in Nigeria: The Post-Colonial Experience,” In 
Osuntokun, ed. Ukaogo Akachi. Nigerian Studies- Readings in 
History, Politics, Society and Culture. (New Jersey: Goldmine 
and Jacob Publishers, 2010): 87. 
Leke Abraham Oluwalogbon, “The Future of Nigeria’sNational Youth 
Service Corps Programme: Any Hope for National Integration?” 
Journal of Public Administration and Governance9, no. 2 
(2019): 1-16.  
https://doi.org/10.5296/jpag.v9i2.14312 
Obadare, E, “Statism, Youth and Civic Imagination: A critical Study of 
the National Youth Service Programme in Nigeria, ”CODESRIA 
Monograph Series, Council for the Development of Social 
Science Research in Africa. Dakar: CODESRIA.  
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION                               A. A. Ogidi 
228 
 
NYSC, “NYSC Magazine”, The Journal of NYSC Directorate Headquarters. 
Abuja: National Youth Service Corps Service (2014). 
NYSC, “National Youth Service Corps Decree No.51 of 1993”. Abuja: 
National Youth Service Corps Service, Nigeria (1993) 
NYSC, “National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Handbook,” Abuja: 
NYSC(1999)  
NYSC, “The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) ACT: CAP N84 Laws of 
the Federation of Nigeria, Abuja: National Youth Service Corps 
Service, Nigeria (2004).  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
229 
 
 11 1155 55    
    Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim:  
An Overview of His Achievements as 18th 
NYSC Director-General 
 
 
Bem Japhet Audu 
and 
Maryam Hamza 
 
 
Introduction 
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) has attained tremendous 
height since the assumption of office by Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim as 
the Director General (DG) of the Scheme. This is not surprising, given 
the fact that Gen Ibrahim is a thoroughbred military administrator, who 
combines scholarship, emotional intelligence and finesse in his 
administrative duties. His experiences cut across administration in the 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION           B. J. Audu and M. Hamza  
230 
 
military and civil establishments, which combination have accelerated 
the pace of the modest service rendered to the NYSC.  
Key issues that confronted the Scheme upon his assumption of office 
include the need to sustain the relevance of the NYSC in a fast-changing 
world; second, inadequate motivation and welfare for Corps Members 
and staff of the Scheme. The third was the challenge of unemployment 
among the youths after the mandatory one year national service. 
Gen Ibrahim’s track record as a visionary leader readily came to play in 
tackling these challenges. He initiated a five-point policy thrust to 
address them. These five-point policy thrust include the following:  
 
/xrhombus Sustain effective utilisation of the potentials of Corps Members 
for optimal benefit;  
/xrhombus Strengthen existing collaborations with critical stakeholders; 
/xrhombus Improve on the welfare and security of Corps Members and 
staff; 
/xrhombus Pursue a technologically driven organisation to deepen 
effective service delivery;  
/xrhombus Reinvigorate the NYSC Ventures and SAED in line with the NYSC 
Act for greater impact. 
 
It is against this backdrop that this essay examines the achievements of 
Gen Ibrahim as Director General of the NYSC, using a descriptive 
approach and evidence -- based study. The paper argues that Gen 
Ibrahim has not only transformed the NYSC, but has also repositioned it 
to benefit the Corps Members, members of staff and indeed, the nation 
at large.  
The assumption here is that leadership is a process of galvanising 
resources to attain group goals. Gen Ibrahim’s leadership style has led 
to the transformation of the NYSC by strengthening the institution, in 
terms of welfare, security, innovations and technological advancement. 
Despite these laudable achievements, there have equally been 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
231 
 
challenges. The Corona Virus (COVID-19) pandemic threatened to 
derail the activities of the Scheme. As an astute administrator, he rose 
to the occasion through a robust coordinated response to manage the 
pandemic that has become a reference point and template for other 
establishments in the country. 
 
Towards a Biography of General Ibrahim: Trends in his Academic, 
Military and Administrative Career 
Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim (Associate Professor), was born on the 13th 
July, 1967 and hails from Nasarawa Local Government Area of 
Nasarawa State. He attended the famous University of Jos where he 
obtained Bachelor's and Master's Degrees in History (1989 and 1992 
respectively), before proceeding to bag a Post-Graduate Diploma in 
Education from Tai Solar in University of Education, Ijebu Ode, Ogun 
State. Driven by his tenacity to acquire knowledge, he went on to obtain 
a Ph.D in History from the University of Abuja in 2007. 
Since his commissioning into the Nigerian Army, he has served in 
various capacities in military formations across the country. His 
appointments and postings include: The Institute of Army Education 
(Research Officer). Researched and produced Nigerian Army Journals 
and Briefs for the Nigerian Army in particular, and the Military in 
general; NYSC (Military Assistant to the Director General) 1997-1999; 
Nigerian Defence Academy (Taught 100 and 200 Levels 2000-2004; 
National Defence College (Staff Officer I Military History 2004-2009; 
Headquarters Nigerian Army School of Education (Senior Instructor) 
2009-2011; Commandant Command Secondary School, Suleja 2012-
2014; Nigerian Defence Academy (Head of Department, History and 
War Studies), 2015-2018; and Registrar, Nigerian Army University, Biu, 
Borno State(2018-2019). 
Brigadier General S Ibrahim is a scholar of high repute, who authored, 
co-authored, edited, co-edited and contributed articles/chapters to 
numerous books and academic Journals.  
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION           B. J. Audu and M. Hamza  
232 
 
Despite his tight schedule, Brig Gen S Ibrahim still devotes time to 
academic work, including the supervision of students' thesis and 
dissertations, serving as Internal and External Examiner of Master’s 
Students at the Ahmadu Bello University Zaria and the Nigerian 
Defence Academy, Kaduna.  
Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim was appointed 18th Director General of the 
National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), and assumed the leadership of 
the Corps on 10th May, 2019.This ushered in a transformation era for 
the Scheme which has not only been a source of immense benefit to the 
Service Corps, but the entire country in general.  
The General also had a cluster of completed courses in the military, and 
excelled in these courses.  Brig Gen Ibrahim is an Associate Professor in 
the Department of History and War Studies, Nigeria Defence Academy, 
Kaduna. These feats in both military and academic trainings, as well as 
experience in service are what marked him out as a visionary, seasoned 
and ingenious administrator.  
Since assumption of duty as the Director General of the NYSC, the 
media has been awash with bourgeoning records of his strides. His 
vision for the Scheme informed his decision to roll out a five-point 
policy thrust, geared towards utilising the potentials of the Corps 
Members maximally.  Since assumption of duty at the NYSC, his 
pragmatic leadership skill has set the Scheme on the path of 
rejuvenation and continuous relevance. Like his predecessors, he came 
up with robust and ambitious programmes, aimed at repositioning the 
Scheme as a self-sufficient and revenue -- generating government 
organisation. 
This chapter will attempt an appraisal of the delivery of these specific 
goals by the administration of Gen S Ibrahim within a short period of 
two years, in spite of the huge challenges facing the Scheme. 
Sustain effective utilisation of the potentials of Corps Members for 
optimal benefit. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
233 
 
The successful conduct of the 2019 NYSC Sports and Cultural Festivals 
is a remarkable achievement of the Director General in harnessing the 
huge potentials of the Corps Members for national development. The 
NYSC Sports and Cultural Festivals serve as one of the veritable 
avenues through which the Scheme promotes national unity, cultural 
integration, as well as showcasing the abundant talents of Corps 
Members in the areas of sports and culture for gainful employment in 
the sports and film industries. The Festivals were revived by the 
present management. The grand finale was held in Abuja. Not only that, 
measures were put in place to ensure that the event holds annually. 
Another success of the NYSC Director General is the production of an 
NYSC movie titled "A Call to Service" currently undergoing post 
production work. Apart from its entertainment value, the movie is 
being packaged to create public awareness on the roles of stakeholders 
to the Scheme. These stakeholders include the three tiers of 
government, Corps employers, as well as serving and prospective Corps 
Members. Ultimately, the film will promote better understanding of the 
Scheme to the public, in addition to sensitising them on their expected 
roles to the Scheme. 
Another noteworthy achievement of the Director General is the 
establishment of NYSC National Cultural Troupe. This initiative is to 
provide a veritable platform for Corps Members to develop their 
talents in drama and cultural dance, while also eliciting public support 
towards harnessing such talents through private and corporate 
patronage. Remarkably, the NYSC Cultural Troupe will also shore up 
the revenue base of the Scheme through its activities which will be 
commercialised.  
In the same vein, the NYSC Director General has successfully organised 
a National Anti-Corruption Walk. This is in furtherance of the NYSC's 
contributions to the fight against corruption through the activities of 
the Corps Anti-Corruption and Integrity CDS Group. The programme 
involved the participation of thousands of Corps Members in the first 
ever nationwide rally/road walk organised by the Economic and 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION           B. J. Audu and M. Hamza  
234 
 
Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), in conjunction with the Federal 
Ministry of Youth and Sports Development on 14th February, 2020. 
The Director-General personally joined the Corps Members and 
officials in Kano State for the rally, which was tagged “Nigerian Youths 
March Against Corruption.”  
This action further boosted the commitment of the NYSC in eradicating 
corruption and promotion of good moral and ethical values in the 
country. 
The outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic nearly crippled the global 
socio-economic activities and did not spare the Scheme. The 2020 
Batch “A” Orientation Course was suspended barely eight days into the 
programme. However, the ever resourceful and proactive Director 
General challenged the creative ingenuity of Corps Members who 
responded appropriately to the challenge by producing non-
pharmaceutical intervention materials such as face-mask, liquid soap, 
alcohol - based hand sanitiser and donated same to the indigent 
populace across the length and breadth of the country. 
Under the leadership of Gen Ibrahim, the NYSC has also carried out 
public awareness campaigns on containment measures for the dreaded 
virus. The initiative of the Director General was later adopted by some  
public institutions. 
Another innovative contribution of the NYSC in the fight against COVID-
19 pandemic is the fabrication of foot-operated water, liquid soap and 
hand sanitizer dispenser by individual Corps Members in several 
States.  
For instance,  Babatunde Dolapo Dayo and Sebe Godspower - Abia 
State; Abdullahi Sani - Kano; Abdulsalam Abubakar and Obiefuna 
Ebuka - Kwara; Adeyanju Adeyemi, Afolabi Victor, Ogunmoye Victor - 
Oyo and Onyekwere Chiwotaoke – Zamfara and Ilori Deborah - FCT 
were among the Corps Members that fabricated and donated the 
devices. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
235 
 
In addition, Corps Members, acting on the platform of Charity 
CDS/SDGs Group, have been contributing towards mitigating the effects 
of the COVID-19 at the grassroots, through the donation of food and 
other relief items to State and Local Governments, as well as indigent 
members of the society. These strategies by the Director General paved 
the way for the Scheme to obtain approval from the National Centre for 
Disease Control (NCDC) to resume full operations, especially the 
Orientation Course. 
Relatedly, several Corps Members on teaching assignment also 
contributed towards sustaining the educational progress of their 
students by adopting virtual teaching approach while schools remained 
closed as a result of the pandemic.  
As per the pursuit of a technologically-driven organisation to deepen 
effective service delivery, the Director-General recently conducted the 
first ever video conference with the 2021 Batch ‘A’ Stream 1 Corps 
Members in all the 37 Orientation Camps. It was an avenue to interface 
with thousands of Corps Members simultaneously, in line with COVID-
19 safety protocols. He has sustained this initiative by periodically 
holding virtual meetings with serving Corps Members, as well as NYSC 
State Coordinators across the country. 
It is gratifying to disclose that the Director General's interface with 
National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) has 
ensured the equipping of the NYSC Rivers Secretariat with computers 
by the agency. That singular gesture has in no small measure deepened 
the proficiency of Corps Members and staff members in the area of 
Information technology. 
The Chief Executive introduced the inscription of date of birth on the 
Certificate of National Service and Exclusion Letter, beginning with the 
2019 Batch “A” Corps Members and 2019 Batch “C” respectively. This is 
in a bid to check the manipulation of date of birth by ineligible persons 
seeking mobilisation for National Service, and it has had a positive 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION           B. J. Audu and M. Hamza  
236 
 
effect in checkmating the falsification of records for employment, visa, 
political appointments, among others. 
Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim conceptualised and designed a state-of-the-
art ICT Office for the Scheme. The design had already been forwarded 
to the Federal Capital Development Authority (FCDA) and Federal 
Ministry of Works and Housing for approval. The cost of construction 
was appropriated in the 2021 Budget, and the Scheme is awaiting the 
release of funds for its commencement.  
Other laudable efforts by Gen Ibrahim to deepen effective service 
delivery include, the development of a Five-Year Strategic Development 
Plan for the Scheme, review of the NYSC Composite  Policy Document 
and documentation of the activities of the Scheme, all aimed at 
positioning the Scheme as a research hub for academics and the 
general public. 
Under his watch, the Federal Government drafted the NYSC into the 
Presidential Steering Committee on Alternate School Programme. The 
inclusion of the Corps in the Committee is in recognition of the 
invaluable contributions of the Scheme to national development, 
particularly in the sphere of Education. 
NYSC is a repository of talents, parading the most enlightened class of 
Nigerian youths, who in forty - eight years of the Scheme's existence 
have continued to make varying degrees of multi-sectoral contributions 
to the growth and well-being of the nation.  
Therefore, the inclusion of the Scheme, whose visibility has been top-
notch in the last two years as member of the Mambila Hydro Power 
Project speaks on the high premium the Federal Government places on 
the Corps. 
Undoubtedly, membership of these august bodies have clearly 
underscored the high pedestal the Director General has taken the 
Scheme in his two years of his eventful and remarkable administration.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
237 
 
In respect of improving the welfare and security of Corps Members and 
staff, in a rare demonstration of empathy and commitment to the 
welfare of Corps Members, the Director General personally visited and 
encouraged Corps Member Saidu Mohammed Adamu, who was 
admitted at the Federal Teaching Hospital, Ado-Ekiti, as a result of 
gunshot injuries that he sustained while on election duties during the 
recent bye-election held in Ekiti East Local Government Area of Ekiti 
State in March 2021.  
Similar visits were also paid to several members of the Service Corps 
on admission in hospitals in Sokoto, Katsina, Edo, Plateau, Taraba and 
Kwara States, among others, following their involvement in road traffic 
accidents. 
The Director General has also paid condolence and reassuring visits to 
the families of deceased and missing Corps Members in Plateau, 
Kaduna and Edo States. Such gestures have increased the confidence of 
Corps Members and their families in the Scheme, and have also 
engendered more zeal for patriotic service by the members of the 
Corps. 
The Director General further demonstrated his commitment to Corps 
welfare by procuring prosthetic limbs for a Corps Member in 
furtherance of his welfare policy. The sum of Thirty-two Million Naira 
(N32,000,000.00) was expended to procure the limbs for Corps 
Member, Nuraddeen Tahir from Kano State, who, along with other 
Corps Members, was involved in a road traffic accident, while on his 
way to report for Primary Assignment after the 2019 Batch ‘B’ Stream 1 
Orientation Course in Taraba State. The Corps Member, who had earlier 
lost an arm at a younger age, had the other one amputated as a result of 
the accident. The artificial limbs have already been supplied, while 
Nuraddeen was trained on the effective use of the limbs before he was 
re-united with his family. With this development, he can now 
effectively perform normal tasks such as writing with the limbs. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION           B. J. Audu and M. Hamza  
238 
 
The Director General relentlessly pursued the issue of increment of 
Corps Members’ allowance in the wake of approval of the new National 
Minimum Wage. His effort paid-off and the allowance of Corps 
Members was increased from Nineteen thousand, Eight hundred Naira 
(N19,800.00) to Thirty-three Thousand Naira (N33,000.00). Following 
the commencement of the payment of the new rate with effect from 
January 2020, the Director General along with the Honourable Minister 
of Youth and Sports Development and some representatives of Corps 
Members paid a “Thank-you” visit to His Excellency, the President and 
Commander-in-Chief, Armed Forces, Federal Republic of Nigeria, 
Muhammadu Buhari GCFR on 6th February, 2020 at the Presidential 
Villa, Abuja. 
Following improvement in the security situation in the country, the 
Director General sought for, and got approval from the Federal 
Government for a return to the earlier suspended ceremonial passing-
out of Corps Members. Accordingly, the Passing-Out Ceremony of the 
2019 Batch ‘A’ Corps Members was marked with colourful parades 
nationwide, thereby increasing the visibility of the NYSC.   
The successful conduct of Orientation courses is also another 
achievement of the Director General as he oversaw the successful 
conduct of the 2019 Batch ‘B’ Streams I and II, as well as 2019 Batch ‘C’ 
Streams I and II Orientation Courses. 
As a proactive measure, NYSC Management suspended the 2020 Batch 
‘A’ Stream 1 Orientation Course just a week into the exercise as a 
deliberate effort to avert the spread of COVID-19 in the Orientation 
Camps. The commendable action equally brought to the fore his 
concern for the health and general well-being of Corps Members and 
staff. 
In recognition of his efforts at curtailing the spread of COVID-19, 
Victims Support Funds (VSF), an organisation chaired by Lt Gen TY 
Danjuma donated 60,000 RDT test kits to the Scheme. The kits are used 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
239 
 
for the screening of prospective Corps Members and camp officials for 
COVID-19 in NYSC Orientation camps nationwide.  
In his quest to expand the administrative structure of the Scheme, the 
Director General ensured the smooth take - off of the NYSC Area Offices, 
whose approval had earlier been secured by the immediate past 
administration of Gen Kazaure, one in each of the six geo-political zones 
of the country, headed by a Director on salary grade level 17. This feat 
has opened up more vacancies, allowing for posting of other cadre of 
staff alongside the Directors to man the Offices. The Area Offices are 
located in Kaduna (North West), Niger (North Central), Bauchi (North 
East), Enugu (South East), Osun (South West) and Delta (South South) 
have since taken off and have in no mean way boosted staff morale and 
operations of the Scheme. 
 
In line with one of the cardinal points of his policy thrust, the Director 
General has been pursuing policies that are geared not only towards 
motivating staff, but also promoting industrial harmony in the Scheme. 
This has been aptly demonstrated through prompt payment of 
entitlements, capacity building programmes, as well as timely and 
transparent conduct of promotion examinations. During the 2020 
Promotion Exercise for instance, One Thousand Seven Hundred and 
Eighteen (1,718) out of the Two Thousand One Hundred Fifty-One 
(2,151) officers that participated in the event were elevated to the next 
grade level after meeting the requirements stipulated in the Public 
Service Rules and NYSC Conditions of Service. Additionally, the 2021 
Senior Staff Promotion Examination recorded a huge success. The 
impact of these promotion exercises has reinforced the commitment of 
staff to work for an enhanced performance. 
Meanwhile, as Management strives to enhance the motivation of staff, 
much premium is laid on the need to have a highly disciplined 
workforce. In this regard, officers who commit infractions are 
reprimanded in line with the provisions of the Public Service Rules 
(PSR). 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION           B. J. Audu and M. Hamza  
240 
 
On strengthening the existing collaboration with critical stakeholders, 
on assumption of office, the Director General saw the dire need to 
sustain and strengthen the existing collaboration with critical 
stakeholders to garner more support and involve them in the 
management of the Scheme. He therefore embarked on advocacy visits 
to the stakeholders such as the former Head of State, General Yakubu 
Gowon, whose administration founded the Scheme. The Director-
General has had interface with the 36 State Governors, the Governor of 
the Central Bank of Nigeria, heads of Security and Anti-Corruption 
Agencies, Federal Road Safety Corps, among other stakeholders. The 
impact of this initiative is the improvement already being achieved in 
stakeholders’ support to the Scheme which is of great essence. 
The Director General also addressed a meeting of the Nigeria 
Governors’ Forum – the first of such engagement by any Chief 
Executive of the Scheme. He used the occasion of the meeting to 
appreciate the State Governors for their support to the Scheme, 
through various intervention projects in their respective States. He 
drew their attention to other areas that needed to be addressed, being 
part of the obligations of the State Governments to the Corps, as spelt 
out in the NYSC Act. 
Consequently the hosting of the meeting of NYSC top Management with 
the representatives of State Governments and the Federal Capital 
Territory Administration, a fallout of the meeting with the Governor's 
Forum is aimed at strengthening the collaboration with the Scheme, 
with a particular focus on the discharge of the statutory obligations of 
the States and FCT to the NYSC, as spelt out in its enabling Act. 
The impact of the meeting is profound, as several State Governments 
have made remarkable gestures in support of the Scheme. Prominent 
among them is the donation of two NYSC permanent Orientation camps 
by Edo and Anambra States, plans by the Lagos State Government to 
build a 14,000 -- capacity Orientation camp and the ongoing upgrading 
and rehabilitation of camp facilities in twenty five States, while the 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
241 
 
expansion of camp facilities has commenced in nine States to meet the 
5,000 -- Corps Member and 500 -- course official -- capacity camp. 
Other notable gains derived from the meeting include, constitution of 
functional NYSC State Governing Boards in seventeen States, with 
eighteen States enhancing the regular payment of state allowance to 
Corps Members, provision and upgrading of transit camps for Corps 
Members in thirty -- one states, provision of watertight security for 
Corps Members in all the States and the FCT, issuance of circulars by 
State Governments against the rejection of Corps Members, increased 
partnership with the Association of Local Governments of Nigeria 
(ALGON), provision of decent accommodation or payment of allowance 
in lieu of that to Corps Members and provision of office and residential 
accommodation by the States hosting the Headquarters of the Area 
Offices. 
In Promoting NYSC/Media relations, the Director General has since 
assumption of duty, strived to strengthen the cordial relations the 
Scheme enjoys with the Media. This, he kick-started with his maiden 
chat with Editors, Bureau Chiefs and Youth Correspondents of various 
Media Organisations in the country on 15th August, 2019. Brig Gen S 
Ibrahim also paid courtesy visits to Media offices in Abuja, including 
the Headquarters of the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA), News 
Agency of Nigeria (NAN), Media Trust Limited and Leadership Group 
Limited.  Similar visits with Director-General’s directive were also 
made to Lagos Head Offices of The Punch, Daily Sun, The Nation 
newspapers, among others. He has consistently maintained his Media-
friendly posture, thereby attracting wider publicity for the Scheme’s 
activities.  
To deepen and sustain the wide publicity that the Scheme has enjoyed, 
he has resuscitated the production and airing of the NYSC Half Hour 
programme on NTA International Channel 251 and Armed Forces 
Radio FM.  So far, plans have reached an advanced stage to establish the 
first ever NYSC FM Radio that will be useful to adequately drive the 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION           B. J. Audu and M. Hamza  
242 
 
publicity efforts of the Scheme and showcase its activities to Nigerians 
and the entire world. 
The Director-General in furtherance of his transparent, inspirational 
and all-inclusive style of administration paid visits to some former 
Chief Executives of the Scheme. The gesture was aimed at appreciating 
their respective contributions to the development of Scheme when they 
were in the saddle of leadership, and also tap into their vast wealth of 
experience. The former Chief Executives appreciated the initiative as it 
was the first ever visit paid simultaneously to them. 
The maiden meeting with the Registrars of some Foreign Corps 
Producing Institutions was also held, having, uncovered the fraudulent 
activities of some tertiary institutions in Africa, especially in the West 
Africa sub region which have the penchant to issue questionable 
academic certificates to unqualified persons, who in turn present same 
to get mobilised for national service. The Director-General has 
commenced an aggressive fight against this menace which has earned 
him the commendation of the President, His Excellency Muhammadu 
Buhari GCFR, during his address at the 2018/2019 President's NYSC 
Honours Award Ceremony. Similar commendations were given to him 
by a broad spectrum of vice chancellors of some indigenous and foreign 
institutions, including the Honourable Minister of Education. 
In addition to hosting the meeting with the Registrars, internal 
mechanisms have been put in place for easier detection of unqualified 
persons attempting to present themselves for mobilisation for service.  
As a result of the stance of Management, some of the foreign 
institutions are now volunteering to alert NYSC of suspected fraudulent 
practices by their students. Interestingly, out of over twenty thousand 
(20,000) persons who registered online as foreign-trained prospective 
Corps Members of the 2019 Batch ‘C’ Service Year, only three thousand, 
four hundred and twenty (3,420) turned up for the pre-mobilisation 
physical screening of their credentials.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
243 
 
To serve as a deterrent to others, sixty-five (65) unqualified persons 
arrested during the 2019 Batch ‘B’ Stream II Orientation Course in 
camps across the country are being prosecuted with some convictions 
already secured. These steps taken by Management have helped to 
create national awareness, especially on the need for parents and 
guardians to check the accreditation status of the institutions attended 
by their wards, and also monitor their academic progress. 
The bold move by the Director General in sanitising the mobilisation 
process will also ensure that only well trained and competent persons 
occupy critical positions that will fast-track the development of the 
country.  
The Director-General has equally hosted a national sensitisation 
programme on the NYSC Act on 24th July, 2019 in Abuja. Prior to this, it 
was clear that many Nigerians were not aware of the provisions of the 
Act – a situation that has led to avoidable infractions. With the 
sensitisation, which is still on-going, organisations and individuals are 
now having better understanding of their obligations to the Scheme. In 
particular, cases of evasion and abscondment from Service, especially 
by the foreign-trained Nigerian graduates, are expected to reduce 
drastically.  
Broadly looking at the reinvigoration of the NYSC ventures and skill 
acquisition and entrepreneurship development programme in line with 
NYSC Act for greater impact, the Director General has been speaking 
passionately about his desire to make the Skill Acquisition and 
Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) Programme and NYSC 
Ventures Management Departments more functional. 
 
To match words with actions, he has taken several steps towards 
reinvigorating the SAED programme, including, but not limited to the 
following: 
• Renewal of commitment by the NYSC and Bank of Industry 
towards the resuscitation of empowerment of Corps 
entrepreneurs with business loans under the BOI-NYSC 
Graduate Empowerment Fund. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION           B. J. Audu and M. Hamza  
244 
 
• Intensive monitoring of GEF beneficiaries. 
• New collaboration with NIRSAL Microfinance Bank on 
empowerment of Corps entrepreneurs. 
• New partnership with Unity Bank Plc on a programme named 
‘Allawee’ aimed at empowering Corps members.  
• Collaboration with British-American Tobacco Foundation on 
empowerment of Corps Members with agricultural skills and 
business trainings, farm internship, mentoring and farm input 
supplies. 
• Hosting of the 2020 NYSC SAED Stakeholders meeting aimed at 
reviewing the programme implementation strategies, as well as 
strengthening of existing partnerships and exploring new ones 
for further technical and material support. 
• Pursuing the completion of the North West Skill Acquisition 
Centre in Kazaure, Jigawa State, this is now at advanced stage. 
• Commencement of work on the North Central Skill Acquisition 
Centre in Keffi, Nasarawa State. 
• Research-based collaboration with OAU-NACETEM sponsored 
by a Canadian Agency, International Development Research 
Centre on evaluation of the impact of SAED and reinvigorating 
it for greater impact. 
• Resuscitation of NYSC Water Factory and Bakery at NYSC 
Orientation Camp Kubwa. The NYSC Water Factory and Bakery 
were revived and revitalised by the Director-General 
immediately he assumed office, and these two ventures are now 
producing at full capacity. The water and bread produced in 
these ventures are being supplied to the FCT, Nasarawa, Kogi, 
Kaduna and Niger State Orientation camps and the general 
public. These ventures now generate revenue to the Scheme 
and help Corps Members acquire skills too. 
• Purchase of modern farm equipment for the four NYSC 
functional farms namely, NYSC Farm Kwali in FCT, Saminaka, 
Kebbi State, Dungulbi, Bauchi State and Iseyin Oyo State. Each 
of these farms now has tractors and other basic farm 
equipment. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
245 
 
• The consistent support in terms of funding and staffing has 
increased the hectares under cultivation from 60 hectares to 
160 hectares during the 2020 farming season. 
• Reclaiming of NYSC farmland at Ezillo which hitherto was 
collected by the Ebonyi State Government. Immediately after 
the reclaiming, tractor was purchased for farming operations at 
the Ezillo Farm. 
• The structure of Ventures Management Department was 
expanded which gave room for the promotion of staff, and has 
in no mean way motivated the staff members. 
• Registration of the two NYSC Garment Factories, Water Factory 
and Bakery with the Corporate Affairs Commission. Arising 
from the last Meeting of the NYSC Top Management with 
Representatives of State Governments, the Governors of Edo 
and Ekiti States announced the donation of land for the sitting 
of two garment factories which will boost the production of 
Corps Members’ kit items. 
• Developing partnership with relevant institutions such as 
International Institute for Tropical Agriculture (IITA), National 
Agricultural Land Development Agency (NALDA), NCRI, NCAM, 
ARMTI, NCAC etc. to enhance the productivity of NYSC 
Farms/Ventures among others. 
• Resuscitation of moribund NYSC Feedmill, Lagos. The mill is 
now ready to start production of animal feeds. 
• Construction of new poultry pen at NYSC farm Kwali, FCT. 
• The Director General has met with the State Governors and 
other stakeholders with a view to securing land in all the States 
for agricultural production. 
 
In addition to the above, twelve States have opened up their skills 
centres for the post camp training of Corps Members to further 
strengthen the skills and entrepreneurship training acquired in camp. 
• The tremendous support given by the Director General has 
repositioned all the NYSC Ventures for greater revenue 
generation for the Scheme.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION           B. J. Audu and M. Hamza  
246 
 
Interestingly, the Scheme paid into the national coffers over Two 
Hundred and Eighty Million Naira (N280,000,000.00) as internally 
generated revenue which is unprecedented in the annals of the Scheme. 
The Director General who has introduced the use of name tags by every 
member of staff for easy identification, equally in an unprecedented 
move sought the help of the Federal Government in tackling the 
ecological challenges confronting some of the NYSC Orientation camps. 
Government granted the request through the deployment of Ecological 
Fund to tackle the menace. Eight camps have been approved as 
beneficiaries in the first phase of the intervention. Already, work is 
ongoing in Cross River, Taraba, FCT and Nasarawa Orientation camps.  
In recognition of his service to the nation, Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim 
who has institutionalised Farewell Parade for outgoing NYSC Chief 
Executives - a novelty, has received numerous commendations and 
awards which include:  
• Chief of Army Staff Award as the Overall Best Participant for 
2013 NAEC Executive Management Course. 
• Nigerian Institute of Public Relations (NIPR) Special 
Recognition Award 2014. 
• Award for Distinguished Professional Contributions to Public 
Service/Fellowship (FCAI) by Institute of Corporate 
Administration. 
• Professional National Award (Historical Society of Nigeria HSN) 
and 
• Chief of Army Staff Commendation Letter 2018.  
 
Conclusion 
The above discourse has given an insight on the achievements of 
General Shuaibu Ibrahim since becoming the Director General of the 
National Youth Service Corps. Within the last two years, the Scheme has 
made some giant strides owing to the pursuit of strict implementation 
of the Director General’s five-point policy thrust. Therefore, the 
contributions of Brig Gen Ibrahim to the NYSC since his ascension into 
office cannot be overemphasised. These contributions are indeed 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
247 
 
remarkable, and will undoubtedly stand the test of time, having set the 
Scheme on growth trajectory and continuous relevance.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION           B. J. Audu and M. Hamza  
248 
 
Bibliography 
 
A. J. Afolayan et al. Selected Speeches and Strides of the 18th NYSC 
Director General: Brigadier General S. Ibrahim, Abuja: NYSC 
National Directorate Headquarters, 2020. 
Achebe C. The Trouble with Nigeria, Enugu: Fourth Dimension 
Publishers, 1998. 
Appadorai A, The Substance of Politics, London: Oxford University 
Press, 2004. 
Audu B.J. “Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim and the Reinvigoration of NYSC,” 
in C.C.C. Osakwe et al (eds.) War, Society and Leadership in 
Nigeria: Essays in Honour of Brigadier General Shuaibu 
Ibrahim, Kaduna: Nigerian Defence Academy Press. 
Economic Confidential, NYSC: Rebranding for Revenue Generation, 
Youth Empowerment-Brig. Shuaib, D.G”, Vol. 13 (154), July, 
2020. 
Gen. Ibrahim attended NAEC (Nigerian Army Education Corps), Young 
Officers Course 1994; Infantry (INF) Young Officers Course 
1996; Training Development Advisers Course (TDA) 2004; and 
NAEC Officers’ Executive Management Course, 2013. Cited in 
The Nation, “NYSC: As a Patriot Assumes Duty”, February 19, 
2019.  
Klingborg D.J. “Leadership and Professional Development,” in Journal of 
Veterinary Medical Education, Davis: University of California, 
2006. 
Media Evaluation of Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim, 2020. 
NYSC National Directorate Headquarters, Selected Speeches and 
Strides of the 18th NYSC Director General, Compiled May 2020, 
by the Special Duties Department. 
NYSC News in A Journal of NYSC Directorate Headquarters, Abuja: 
NYSC Publication. 
NYSC. Media Assessment  
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
249 
 
Sharma, M.K. and S. Jain. “Leadership Management: Principles, Models 
and Theories,” in Global Journal of Management and Business 
Studies. ISSBN 2248-9878 Volume 3, Number 3, 2013. 
 
Oral Interview 
 
Interviews with NYSC Coordinator   
Jibril Umar, Head of Ventures Kubwa, 50+, Interviewed at Kubwa 
Abuja, 15/3/21 
Emeka -- Rems Mgbemena, Deputy Director and Head, Publications 
Division, Press and Public Relations Unit, NYSC National 
Directorate Headquarters, Abuja, 50+, Interviewed at Abuja, 
15/3/21  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT