NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NATIONAL YOUTH 
SERVICE CORPS 
AND  
NIGERIA’S EDUCATION 
SECTOR  
    
 
 
 
 
 Editors  
Shuaibu Ibrahim 
Bem Japhet Audu 
Maryam Hamza 
Onah Peter Otumala 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

ii 
 
 
 
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS AND  
NIGERIA’S EDUCATION SECTOR  
 
 
Copyright (c) 2021 Shuaibu Ibrahim, Bem Japhet Audu, 
Maryam Hamza, Onah Peter Otumala 
 
 
All right reserved 
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 
stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any 
means electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, 
without prior permission of the author, who is the copyright owner. 
 
 
 
ISBN: 978-978-58821-1-7 
 
Note: Views and opinions expressed in the book are entirely those of 
the chapter contributors and not that of the Editors. 
 
 
Printed and Bound in Kaduna-Nigeria. 
Using environmental sustainable paper materials by 
Pyla-Mak Press and Publishers Limited 
Kaduna, Nigeria. 
+234(0)8023633763 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

iii 
 
NOTES ON CONTRIBUTORSNOTES ON CONTRIBUTORS NOTES ON CONTRIBUTORSNOTES ON CONTRIBUTORS    
    
Abdussalam, Aisha Ajoke, is with the Department of Political Science 
and Defence Studies, Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. 
Achiaku Fanen, is a post graduate student in the Department of 
History and International Studies, Federal University of Lafia.  
Adeniji Olawale Abayomi, is of the Department of History and War 
Studies, Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. 
Aguiyi, Chukwuebuka Cornelius, is with Institute of Education, 
Unversity of Nigeria, Nsukka. 
Ayodele Christian, is of the Department of History and War Studies, 
Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. 
Bem Japhet Audu PhD, is a lecturer in the Department of History and 
War Studies, Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. 
Elisha Zigwai Ambrose, is a doctoral candidate of the Department of 
History and War Studies, Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. 
Esther Ukile Akaa, is a post graduate student in the Department of 
History and International Studies Federal University of Lafia. 
Ladi Charles Chiwar, is a lecturer in the Department of Military 
History, Nigerian Army University, Biu, Borno State. 
Mahmud Dauda, is of the Department of History and War Studies, 
Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. 
Rufai Aliyu, is a serving Military Officer (Major) with the Nigerian 
Army. 
Maryam Hamza PhD, is a lecturer in the Department of History and 
War Studies, Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

iv 
 
Ntagu, Miracle Promise, is a lecturer in the Department of Political 
Science and International Relations Nigerian Defence Academy, 
Kaduna. 
Onah P. Otumala PhD, is a lecturer in the Department of History and 
War Studies, Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. 
Safiya Abu Wada, is a lecturer in the Department History and Internal 
Studies, Prince AbubakarAudu University, Anyigba, Kogi State. 
Usman Mohammed Musa, is a lecturer in the Department of History 
and War Studies, Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. 
 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

v 
 
CONTENTSCONTENTS CONTENTSCONTENTS    
 
Contents - - - - - - -          v 
Preface - - - - - - -          vii 
Acknowledgment - - - - - -          x 
Introduction  - - - - - - -          xi 
 
1 Background to Educational Sector in Nigeria 
Onah P. Otumala  - - - - -          1 
2 National Youth Service Corps and Education in Nigeria 
Achiaku Fanen  - - - - -          21 
3 Knowledge Deficit in Nigerian Education and  
NYSC Scheme: A Nexus 
Onah P. Otumala - - - - -          42 
4 Knowledge on Community Development Service and  
its Impact on National Development 
Ayodele Christian - - - - -          61 
5 NYSC Act and the Establishment of "Teaching for  
Nigeria" 
Akaa Ukile Esther - - - - -         79 
6 Influence of the Activities of the National Youth Service 
Corps on the Knowledge of Social Issues in their Host 
Communities 
Rufai Aliyu   - - - - -          99 
7 The Effect of National Youth Service Corps Teachers`  
Input on Students` Academic Performance in  
Secondary Schools in Nigeria 
Rufai Aliyu   - - - - -          113 
8 NYSC and the Girl Child Education 
Esther Ukile Akaa - - - - -          128 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

vi 
 
 
9 National Youth Service Corps and Adult Education in 
Nigeria 
Usman Mohammed Musa and Mahmud Dauda - -          147 
10 NYSC and Education in Nigeria: An Appraisal of the  
Role of National Youth Service Corps Teachers in  
Education Delivery in Schools in Kaduna State. 
Abdussalam, Aisha Ajoke - - - -          166 
11 The Role of NYSC in the National Commission for  
Mass Literacy, Adult and Non-Formal Education,  
(NMEC) Campaign for Mass Literacy 
Jack Jeremiah - - - - - -          185 
12 The Role of NYSC in Facilitating Mass Literacy in  
Nigeria 
Adeniji Olawale Abayomi and Safiya Abu Wada  -          205 
13 NYSC and Educational Development in Nigeria: 
Contributions, Challenges and Prospects 
Aguiyi, Chukwuebuka Cornelius - - -          228 
14 NYSC and the Dynamics of Rural Education System in 
Nigeria 
Elisha Zigwai Ambrose  - - - -          240 
15 NYSC and Knowledge Production in Nigeria 
 Ladi Charles Chiwar  - - - -          273 
16. Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: An Overview of  
His Achievements as 18th NYSC Director-General 
Bem Japhet Audu and Maryam Hamza   - -          290  
 
Index - - - - - - - -          311  
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

vii 
 
PREFACEPREFACE PREFACEPREFACE    
Education is a tool for national and societal advancement. Apart from 
being a fundamental human right, which has continually been 
replicated in several United Nations documents, education is one of the 
most basic and fundamental bedrocks of development of any nation. 
Education is the transfer of knowledge from one person to another or 
to a group of people to make them functional members of the society. It 
is a means through which society reproduces itself, passes its main 
characteristics to generations as well as a dynamic instrument of 
change and development. For this reason, it has been understood that 
the most veritable tool used by societies in fostering development is to 
heavily invest in qualitative education. This is why most governments 
develop policies and programmes aimed specifically at ensuring that all 
citizens within school-going age irrespective of gender, creed, and level 
on the social strata, race, and location and so on are entitled to 
education.  
The Nigerian government, since independence made several attempts 
at ensuring that every Nigerian citizen right from childhood is given 
education. This is with the aim of making them functional by 
developing their abilities and capacities to attain their full potentials. 
This is meant to enhance the citizenry as tools for fostering 
development, aimed at promoting of a strong, democratic, egalitarian, 
prosperous, indivisible and indissoluble sovereign nation. Formal or 
non-formal education seeks to achieve these goals irrespective of 
curriculum, methods and organisation.   
Since after independence, concrete steps were made towards 
revitalizing the educational system to suit the reality of the Nigerian 
state as against the colonial inherited education which was criticised 
for being too theoretical (neglecting practical educational activities) to 
make profound impact on Nigerians. As a result, Nigeria embarked on 
an overhaul of the education system which started with curriculum 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

viii 
 
reform by the National Education Research Council in 1966. This was 
followed by another Curriculum Reform in 1969 and a National Policy 
on Education was launched in 1977 and reviewed in 1981 and 2004. 
The sole aim of the programmes and policies put in place by the 
Nigerian government on education is total eradication of illiteracy for 
all citizens while inculcating national consciousness and unity, right 
types of values and attitudes needed for survival; and acquisition of 
appropriate skills, abilities and competences needed to contribute to 
national development. 
One of the veritable tools the Nigerian government has employed for 
the achievement and attainment of national unity and development is 
the National Youth Service Corps scheme. Studies on appraisal of the 
NYSC have shown that there is no aspect of the social, economic, 
political and cultural facet of the society that the scheme has not 
touched and impacted on. The NYSC has facilitated regular and 
effective distribution of skilled manpower while bridging socio-cultural 
barriers and fostering unity in the country. It has rekindled interest in 
areas of national development particularly in education by provoking 
and promoting youths’ interest in teaching. This involvement of corps 
members in teaching has helped to prick their conscience to the course 
of development. Furthermore, with the complex problems faced by the 
Nigerian School system which include declining or fallen standard of 
education, dearth of properly trained and professionally equipped 
teachers to undertake the teaching profession, low number of teaching 
personnel, lack of government commitment aimed at improving 
education and so on, the participation of the NYSC has been very timely. 
It is noteworthy to state that without the NYSC, rural school system 
would have collapsed. This is because, most rural schools across the 
country are faced with a dearth of teaching personnel due to lack of 
incentives, thereby, bringing the NYSC corps members to the rescue. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

ix 
 
In all, it should be noted that in spite of the role and contribution of 
NYSC in national cohesion, integration and socio-economic 
development, its contribution to educational system in Nigeria has 
received meagre scholarly attention thus the need for research on this 
theme. Therefore, this study is an attempt to document the roles and 
contribution of NYSC on education with the aim of contributing to the 
existing body of knowledge. This book does not in any way negate the 
possibility of further work on the subject matter, as it is not an 
exhaustive study on the role and contribution of the NYSC on education 
in Nigeria. 
Furthermore, this book will serve as source material to students, 
scholars of various tertiary institutions across the nation as well as 
policy makers and other interested readers. The book which is a 
collection of fifteen chapters contains well-structured and researched 
discourse which comes after a brief history of the NYSC, showcase the 
NYSC scheme as service provider and a development partner, 
especially in education at all levels ranging from primary, secondary, 
tertiary education as well as adult and mass literacy. 
  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

x 
 
ACKNOWLEDACKNOWLED ACKNOWLEDACKNOWLEDGEMGEM GEMGEMENTSENTS ENTSENTS    
It is with profound gratitude that we acknowledge God Almighty, for 
without Him, this project would not have become a reality. We 
acknowledge with gratitude the chapter contributors for agreeing to 
write well-researched articles within a limited period. Their patience 
and perseverance in the course of this project is really commendable. 
We also thank our peer reviewers for their thought-provoking 
comments on the manuscripts. This helped tremendously in improving 
the quality of the chapters. Their patience through the peer review 
process is well acknowledged and commended.  
This project also benefitted immensely from some of the research 
institutions and libraries in and around Kaduna. Worthy of mention 
here are the Library of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), 
Yakubu Gowon House, Maitama, Abuja, Arewa House Kaduna and 
National Archives Kaduna. The staff and research fellows in these 
offices were very accommodating and helpful during the course of our 
research. 
Also, our profound appreciation goes to the Director-General of NYSC, 
Brigadier General (Assoc Prof) Shuaibu Ibrahim and his Staff who gave 
us unflinching support and ensured that this project is a huge success. 
Without the DG, the project would have suffered setbacks beyond 
measure. 
We acknowledge the support received from some of our dependable 
friends and colleagues. Most of them are Research Fellows of the Centre 
for the Study of Leadership and Complex Military Operations, 
(CSLCMO) Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. They are: Jamiu Yusuf 
Danga, Mohammed Liman Murtala, Suleiman Bilal Ishaq, Jack Jeremiah, 
Alabi Ezekiel, Helen Noor, Blaise L. Archibong, Matthew Emmanuel, 
Abdullahi Isah, Suleiman Bashir Mohammed and Longe Ometere 
Esther. Thank you all. 
May God Bless us all. 
Shuaibu Ibrahim, Bem J. Audu, Maryam Hamza, Onah P. Otumala. 
  April, 2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

xi 
 
INTRODUCTIONINTRODUCTION INTRODUCTIONINTRODUCTION    
    
Brief History of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) 
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) was established in 1973 by 
the government of General Yakubu Gowon. The history of the scheme is 
traceable to the events that took place in Nigeria towards the last half 
of 1960s. The years 1967-1970 were characterized by the Nigerian civil 
war. At the end of the war, the General Gowon administration came up 
with new policies that would promote post-conflict peace, 
reconciliation, rehabilitation and reconstruction. Consequently, the 
vital need for national unity led to the birth of the NYSC idea. The NYSC 
Scheme came into being through Decree No. 24 of 22nd May 1973. It 
states that the NYSC is being established with a view to the proper 
encouragement and development of common ties among the youths of 
Nigeria and the promotion of national unity. After 20 years of existence, 
the 1973 Decree was repealed and replaced with No. 51 of 16th June, 
1993, now referred to as the National Youth Service Corps Act, Cap. 
N84, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004. The Act is preserved by 
Section 315 (5) (a) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of 
Nigeria, 1999 (as amended), thereby, making the NYSC Act part and 
parcel of the constitution. 
According to Section 1(3) of the NYSC Act, the objectives of the Scheme 
are to:  
“(a)  inculcate discipline in Nigerian youths by instilling in 
them a tradition of industry at work and of patriotic and 
loyal service to Nigeria in any situation they may find 
themselves; 
(b) raise the moral tone of the Nigerian youths by giving 
them the opportunity to learn about higher ideals of 
nation achievements, social and cultural improvement;  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

xii 
 
(c)  develop in Nigerian youths the attitudes of mind, 
acquired through shared experience and suitable 
training, which will make them more amenable to 
mobilization in the national interest;  
(d)  enable Nigerian youths acquire the spirit of self-reliance 
by encouraging them to develop skills for self-
employment;  
(e)  contribute to the accelerated growth of the national 
economy;  
(f)  develop common ties among the Nigerian youths and 
promote national unity and integration;  
(g) remove prejudices, eliminate ignorance and confirm at 
first hand the many similarities among Nigerians of all 
ethnic groups; and  
(h)  develop a sense of corporate existence and common 
destiny of the people of Nigeria.” 
In order to achieve the objectives stated above, Section 1(4) of the 
NYSC Act provides that the Scheme shall ensure: 
“(a)  the equitable distribution of members of the service 
corps and the effective utilization of their skills in area 
of national needs;  
(b)  that are far as possible, Nigerian youths are assigned to 
jobs in States other than their States of origin;  
(c)  that such group of Nigerian youths assigned to work 
together is as representative of Nigeria as far as 
possible; 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

xiii 
 
 (d)  that the Nigerian youths are exposed to the mode of 
living of the people in different parts of Nigeria. 
(e)  the Nigerian youths are encouraged to eschew religious 
intolerance by accommodating religious differences;  
(f) the members of the service corps are encouraged to 
seek a year for their one year national service, career 
employment all over Nigeria, thus promoting the free 
movement of labour; 
(g)  that employers are induced partly though their 
experience with members of the service corps to 
employ more readily and on a permanent basis, 
qualified Nigerians, irrespective of the States or origin.” 
Basically, the aims and objectives of the NYSC is to reinforce 
institutional efficiency and effectiveness as well as youth development 
in the country. It is accepted in several quarters that NYSC is a viable 
platform for the transitioning of youths into self-reliant adults and the 
improvement of general welfare and development. The NYSC 
programme has since inception facilitated steady and effective supply 
and distribution of skilled manpower, breaking of social and cultural 
barriers as well as the building of friendly bridges across ethno-
linguistic boundaries. It has also assisted in the promotion of values, 
national unity and development, rekindled interest in neglected but 
vital areas of national development and promoted leadership qualities 
in the youths. The Scheme has four (4) cardinal programmes which are: 
Mobilisation/Orientation, Primary Assignment, Community 
Development Service and Winding-Up/Passing- Out Exercise. 
The maximum age requirement for youths under the scheme is thirty 
(30) years old. They are also engaged in community development 
programmes and activities. According to Section 2(2) of the NYSC Act, 
the only groups of youth exempted are those that have served in the 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

xiv 
 
Armed forces or the Nigerian Police for a period of more than nine (9) 
months or in the security agencies, those over thirty (30) years of age 
and those conferred with National Honours. In addition, the choice of 
youths above every other age group was based on the fact that they are 
considered the most active change agents needed in building a united 
Nigeria, and a way of achieving this is for the youths to imbibe and 
nurture a sense of common belonging and national consciousness 
which would transcend political, social, state and ethnic loyalties. 
At the onset of the NYSC in 1973, only 2,346 graduates were mobilized. 
However, judging by the evolvement of the Scheme, there has been a 
phenomenal increase in the number of graduates that are participating 
annually. NYSC is capable of bringing out the best qualities in Nigerian 
youth and imparting in them the right attitude and value for nation 
building that serves as catalyst to national development, sense of pride 
and fulfillment of its participating graduate youths. The criteria 
observed in the deployment of Corps members include:   
• the equality of states,  
• ability of states to absorb the service of participants,  
• posting based on concessional considerations (marital and 
health grounds), posting on demand from various federal 
government establishments,  
• the supportive role of a government is also increasingly 
becoming a factor in the placement of corps members,  
• the deployment of corps members has retained its traditional 
process with the majority of corps members going to the 
classrooms. 
The Scheme’s presence is felt and noticed in all the LGAs in the country, 
creating higher emphasis in the rural and grass root development in 
line with its objectives since inception.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Background to Educational Sector in Nigeria 
1 
 
 11 11    
    Background to Educational Sector in Nigeria 
 
 
Onah P. Otumala 
 
 
Introduction 
Education is the vital system through which human society attains 
changes and evolves advancement. Education is simply defined as the 
transfer of knowledge, skills and behavior to the learners. It is a way by 
which society transmits its culture, ethics, skills and norms to the next 
generations.  Education is one of the most important means of societal 
growth. Joseph Adison described the indispensable value of education 
to humanity thus: 
Education is a companion which no misfortune can 
depress, no crime can destroy, no enemy can enslave. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                            Onah P. Otumala 
2 
 
At home a friend, abroad an introduction, in solitude a 
solace, and in society an ornament. It chastens vice, it 
guides virtue, it gives, at once, grace and government to 
genius. Without it what is man?  A splendid slave, a 
reasoning savage.1 
In Nigeria it has shaped and sharpened the society in several ways. 
That is, education sector had contributed significantly to the level of 
historical progress the Nigerian society achieved currently, both 
positively and otherwise. This chapter examines the broad-spectrum 
historical view of the education sector in Nigeria. 
This chapter analyses the existing traditional system of education prior 
to the contact the western world and the inception of the Islamic 
education before the British colonial rule in Nigeria. It discusses the 
Christian Missionary contributions to the educational development in 
Nigeria and the government‘s role in the sector through independence 
to contemporary period. Finally the role of the private sector 
involvement in education sector is highlighted to capture monumental 
changes and the effects they had on the Nigerian society. 
 
Traditional Educational system in Nigeria 
The traditional education is an integral part of the culture of the people 
of Nigeria from ancient period. It is the first form of education in 
Nigeria that was highly valued and practised across Nigeria throughout 
the pre-colonial period. The traditional system of education has been 
proven to be a potent and functional means through which societal 
laws and norms are transmitted from generation to generation. It is a 
system that allows for the instillation of positive values, skills and 
attitudes that prepare individuals to become useful members of their 
                                                           1Cited in  J. Eyisi “Education as Bedrock for Nigerian Development” J. Eyisi et.al 
(eds) Education Across the Curriculum: In Honour of Emeritus Professor Thomas 
KolawoleAdeyanju 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Background to Educational Sector in Nigeria 
3 
 
respective communities and cultural groups.  This educational system 
is holistic and total in nature. The immediate members of the family of 
the learner not only determines the curriculum of studies but also 
constituted both the instructors and examiners, at the same time. In 
most pre-colonial societies in Nigeria the extended family and the 
entire community contributed their quota to the education of their 
children. In pre-colonial Africa, traditional education was all-
encompassing with the objective of functional production of useful 
members of the society through which they are inducted into 
adulthood. It underscored “social responsibility, job orientation, 
political, military training and spiritual and moral values”2 
The first area of the education is the sex roles of the children based on 
their masculinities and feminises. For instance, in the farming societies 
of the Middle Belt Region of Nigeria, male children were taught early 
how to handle hunting and farm tools like cutlasses, digger, hoe, bows, 
arrows, catapult, slings. In the same area, the girls are taught about 
their personal hygiene, menstrual health, and child care, elementary 
nursing, winnowing, and brewing of local beer, farm work and home 
chores.3 
In the same vein the education system includes practical process of 
production with high occupational specialisation in the dominant 
profession of the geo-political area. The philosophy and main objective 
of the traditional education was to consolidate those aspects of the 
beliefs and practices of the people that emphasized such virtues as 
valour, tolerance, respect for others, dignity of labour and unity of 
purpose, and imprint such on younger generations. 
The system is still found to be relevant in offering solutions to the 
multi-faceted problems of the contemporary complex Nigeria because 
                                                           2See BT Bingel ”Traditional Education in Beromland” CC Jacobs (ed.) Studies of 
Berom in History and Culture Volume 1. Jos, BHP 1995. 157  3Bingel ”Traditional Education in Beromland” 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                            Onah P. Otumala 
4 
 
it encompasses good moral behaviour, human dignity, emotional 
intelligence, environmental knowledge and the immediate culture of 
the individual leaner. Indeed the indigenous education is synonymous 
with what today is globally referred to as Indigenous Knowledge 
System.(IKS).4 Some scholars and westernised elites might tend to 
suggest or conclude that traditional education is either dead or no 
longer of importance in the 21st century because of higher technology. 
This perception is not true and should be rejected out rightly. Advanced 
technology without sound moral background, good norms and value for 
humanity will result in destruction and anarchy as exemplified in 
western societies where gay marriage, transgender, gun running and 
other social ills are legally accepted as norms.  
 
Islamic educational system in Nigeria 
The Islamic education in Nigeria dated back to pre-colonial period. By 
the fifteen century the ruling Saifawa dynasty of Kanem-Bornu Empire 
was the first to accept Islam particularly during the reign of Mai Idris 
Alooma.5 
Between1804 and 1840, the Fulani jihad led by Othman Dan Fodio had 
fought and taken over most of the far North while the Sokoto Caliphate 
was established. The Islamic education spread to entire caliphate as the 
religion was spreading southward up to Nupe and Ilorin. By the 
beginning of the 20th century many contacts by traders, early colonial 
activities, transportation facilities and other developments enhanced 
the peaceful spread of Islam to other parts of Nigeria. This was the time 
when the Islamic faith took its place in the hearts of many Nigerians 
and in a great part of the country. With the spreading of the religion, 
                                                           4M.B. Ogunniyi “Harnessing Indigenous Knowledge Systems in Fostering Quality 
Education in Africa” UNESCO Journal of African Culture and International 
Understanding No.5, July-Sept.2013.  13 5 https://www.legit.ng/1188723-history-islamic-education-nigeria.html 
see book on Kanem Bornu 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Background to Educational Sector in Nigeria 
5 
 
other cultural and traditional aspects of Islam like quranicre citation 
and memorization education spread, too, and it was necessary to invent 
a new system of education for Muslim children based on its doctrine. 
The education was standardised into three levels corresponding into 
the primary, secondary and Islamic higher education where scholars 
and learners move from one locality to other centres to learn and teach. 
Such higher educational centres are located in Kano, Katsina, Ilorin, 
Zaria etc. They study under renowned scholars like Shiekh Dahiru 
Bauchi, Sheikh Gummi and others. 
The significance of Islamic education to the society includes: 
1. Islamic education instils in a child the foundations of Islam. · 
2. Islamic education instructs the child with the doctrines of Islam 
like how to perform ablution, prayer and fasting during 
Ramadan.  
3. Islamic education provides guides to children on good moral 
behavior including how to greet an elder, respect people and 
the style of Islamic dressing.  
4. It teaches the children to believe in one God. 
5. It teaches children the need for good neighborliness and 
peaceful co-existence with other people in the society  
 
Christian Missionary Education in Nigeria. 
The first encounter or attempt at introducing western education into 
the area later known as Nigeria was the Portuguese as early as the 
sixteenth century. The early missions tried to educate the children of 
coastal chiefs, obas merchants, influential citizens in Lagos, Benin, and 
Brass. This first attempt at introducing western education in Nigeria 
did not reach the interior and it was later abandoned because of inter-
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                            Onah P. Otumala 
6 
 
tribal wars and the trans-Atlantic slave trade. The period of this first 
attempt was between 1515 and 15526 
The second attempt at introducing western education to Nigeria was 
led by Christian Missions and the British colonial Government in the 
19th century with the objectives of abolishing slave trade through 
evangelising, educating, trading and colonising the people of Africa.7 
The first to arrive the shores of Nigeria were the Methodist Mission 
through Badagry led by Rev. Freeman with some ex-slaves in 1842.  
They built the first school called “Nursery of the Infant Church” They 
were followed by the Church Missionary Society (CMS), Anglican led by 
Rev. Townsend whose base was in Abeokuta. The church of Scotland 
Mission (Presbyterian) led by Rev. Waddel settled in Calabar in 1846, 
while the Baptist led by Rev Bowen moved to Ogbomoso. The Catholics 
of the Holy Ghost Fathers came through present Benin Republics to 
establish churches and schools in the present South-South and 
Igboland. 
From this uncertain beginning, Christianity and western education took 
firm root in the Southern part of Nigeria. The number of primary 
schools established in this part of Nigeria by 1900 could be estimated 
around hundreds.8The persistent uproar for secondary school 
education by the few Nigerian educated people led to the establishment 
of the first secondary school in Nigeria – CMS Grammar School, Lagos, 
founded in June, 1859). By 1930 the number of secondary schools in 
the South was around thirties. See the table below. 
 
                                                           6SB Abolade and AF Oyelade “Historical Development of Private Secondary School 
Education in Nigeria: 1859-Present” eJournal of educational Policy, Spring 2018.. 
accessed  http://nau.edu/COE/ejournal/  7EA Ayandele “External Influence on African Society” JC Anene and GN Brown 
(eds.) Africa in the Nineteenth and Twentieth Centuries   Ibadan University Press 
and Nelson, 1966. 137-143 8 There were no accessible data per time of the number of schools by 1900. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Background to Educational Sector in Nigeria 
7 
 
Table 1.1: Secondary Schools in Southern Nigeria as at 1930 and 
their owners 
S/No.  School Location  Date  Proprietor/ 
ownership 
1 CMS Grammar School, Lagos 1859  CMS Anglican 
2 St. Gregory’s College ” 1876  RCM Catholics 
3 Topo Industrial School “ 1876  “ 
4 Methodist Boys High 
School 
“ 1878  Methodist 
5 Methodist Girls High 
School 
“ 1879  “ 
6 Baptist Boys High School “ 1885  Baptist 
7 Hope Wadel Training 
Institute 
Calabar 1895 Presbyterian 
8 St. Andrew College  Oyo 1896  CMS 
9 Baptist Training College Ogbomoso 1897 Baptist 
10 St. Paul’s Training 
College 
Awka 1904  CMS 
11 Oron Training Institute Oron 1905 Methodist 
12 Wesleyan Training 
Institute 
Ibadan 1905  “ 
13 Abeokuta Grammar 
School 
Abeokuta 1908 CMS 
14 Kings College Lagos  909 Government 
15 Eko Boys High School “ 1913  Private 
16 Ibadan Grammar School Ibadan 1913 CMS 
17 Ijebu-ode Grammar 
School 
Ijebu-ode 1913 :” 
18 Duke Town Secondary 
School 
Calabar 1919 Presbyterian 
19 Ondo Boys High School Ondo 1919 CMS 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                            Onah P. Otumala 
8 
 
20 Ibo Boys Institute Uzuakoli 1923 Methodist 
21 Dennis Memorial 
Grammar Sch. 
Onitsha 1928 CMS 
22 United Missionary 
College 
Ibadan 1928  CMS/Methodist 
23  St. Thoma’s College  Asaba 1928 Catholics 
24 St. Charles Training 
College 
Onitsha 1929 “ 
25 Government College  Umahia 1929  Government 
26 Government College Ibadan 1929  “ 
27 Baptist Boys High School Abeokuta 1923 Baptist 
Source: Ogbole History of Education in Nigeria. Madugu  “History of 
Education in Nigeria” Lecture Notes, University of Jos 2004.  
The basic summary from the above table show the Christian missions 
owning 23, the Government 3 and 1 private school. 
It was also clear from the above that the colonial government was not 
really interested in education or not willing to invest in education. This 
lazier faire attitude toward education of the people by the colonial 
government obviously reflected their nature of “reaping without 
sewing’ basically to minimize cost in the colonies because most of the 
products of education formed the labour force that kept its’ 
administration.9 
The Christian Missions had borne a lot of sacrifices to establish these 
schools. They include: lack of trust by the indigenous people, shortage 
of funds, lack of communication and transport facilities, malaria and 
                                                           9 Many reasons could be presented the actions of the colonial authority towards 
education in the colonies. The most genuine was basically to minimise the cost of 
colonial expenses.  
 Check Donald Omagwu A wind of change: Bekwarra in an Age of Globalization. 
Makurdi, Aboki Publishers. 2011. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Background to Educational Sector in Nigeria 
9 
 
other tropical diseases attacks. There was no attention on the northern 
part of Nigeria until the first half of the twentieth century. This factor 
laid the foundation for the current educational backwardness, poverty 
and general dichotomy between the two regions.10 Now let’s look at the 
activities of Christian Missions in extending western education to the 
northern part of Nigeria. 
 
Extension of Western Education to Northern Nigeria 
The first attempt to take Christianity and western education to the 
north was in 1841 by the Niger expedition team of 144 men led by 
Thomas Boxton. They were jointly sponsored by the British 
government, businessmen and the missionaries. It was a formidable 
team with several ex-slaves from Freetown, sailed along the Niger up to 
Lokoja on three ships and settled down for work. Unfortunately, they 
were heat by malaria and other diseases as 58 died within a short 
period. This disaster deprived the Northern Nigeria particularly the 
Middle Belt Peoples of early education. 
The failure did not completely deter the zeal of the young Ajayi 
Chrowder whose effort with Dr Baike were able to establish a school 
and church in Lokoja in 1865. The school known as The Holy Trinity 
School was the first school in the north. By 1875 they set up the second 
school called “Institution Cause Preparadi” but it was closed down 
shortly. 
By 1899, the Hausa mission of CMS led by Bishop Tugwell obtained 
permission to establish their activities in the north. The team got to 
Kano by 1900 and was rejected by the then Emir of Kano, Aliyu thus: 
                                                           10Check for recent poverty national poverty index based on six geo-political 
zones.National Bureau os Statistics. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                            Onah P. Otumala 
10 
 
We do not want you, you can go. I give three days to 
prepare; a hundred donkeys to carry your load back to 
Zaria, and we never wish to see you here again.11 
In Zaria the team was given a place at Girku and missionary activity 
commenced there. This laid the foundation for Zaria being the seat of 
most education institutions in the north currently.12It also opened the 
gate to educational establishment in the entire north based on the 
principle of where the Christian missions were accepted by the people. 
The Sudan Interior Mission (SIM) team led by Rev. R.V. Bingham 
established their bases in 1903 at Pategi, Bida and Wushishi.13 From 
there they spread their activities to other parts of the north. 
The Sudan United Mission (SUM) an association of three sources 
/branches led by Dr. Karl Kuum in 1904 entered Plateau region.14 They 
were rejected by the Emir of Wase and their station was burnt down in 
1907. They moved to Ibi, Donga and Dampar to establish churches and 
schools.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           11Madugu, Study lecture notes, Institute of Education, University of Jos   12Zaria host more education institutions both governments, private and church 
owned. 13The name later changed to Evagelical Church of West Africa/Winning All ECWA 14 The SUM had England, Danish and South Africa groups 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Background to Educational Sector in Nigeria 
11 
 
Table 1.2: The Sudan United Mission SUM (currently,TEKAN) 
allocated three major areas of coverage/ work to their branches as 
follows: 
Area of influence Branch/leader of 
mission 
Current church 
name 
Bauchi-Plateau region 
including Gombe and 
Kaduna 
England led by  Dr. Karl 
Kuum 
Church of Christ in 
Nigeria COCIN 
Adamawa Region 
Neuman 
Danish led by Dr. Niels 
H. Bronumm 
Lutheran Church of 
Christ in Nigeria 
LCCN 
Tiv land South African Dutch led 
by Rev. Dr. Botha 
NKST 
Source: Madugu “History of Education in Nigeria” Lecture Notes, 
University of Jos 2004.  
The Roman Catholics Missionaries  led by Father Oswald Waller moved 
to Shendam and expanded up to Kafanchan and Kaduna. Around Bornu 
axis, the Church of Brethren Missionaries from the USA led by Dr. 
Stolver Kulp entered Biu in 1922 but was rejected by the Emir. They 
went to Garkide and settled.15 
In all the penetration and exploit of the Christian missions in 
establishing churches and schools in the North, the colonial authority 
was not happy but apprehensive of inter-religious crises. This explained 
why Lugard clearly restricted them from the Muslim areas, which in no 
small measure draw these areas back further than the Middle Belt 
Region and the Southern Nigeria educationally. Other factors include 
Lugard’s agreement to protect the religion with the Emirs, the hostility 
of some emirs to western education, lack of indigenous ex-slaves to take 
a lead in the north like the south, lack of access to the coast or the 
hindrance of the Sahara Desert and many more. 
                                                           15This Mission is currently called Eklesyia Yan-uwan Nigeria EYN. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                            Onah P. Otumala 
12 
 
However the missionaries finally penetrated in 1922 with 
establishment of the elitist school in the north called Teacher Trinity 
college (later named Barewa College) Kaduna/Zaria. Similarly, the 
Teachers College Toro was opened for non –Muslim areas among 
others. See table 3 below: 
Table 1.3: Secondary schools in Northern Nigeria as at 1970sand 
their owners 
S/No School Location Date Ownership  
1 St. Paul College  Wusasa Zaria 1970s CMS 
2 St. Peters college  Kadunin Na CMS 
3 St. John College  Jos 1965 “ 
4 St. Paul College Bokkos  “ 
5 St. Benedict College Panshin  “ 
6 Baptist High School Jos 1960 Baptist 
7 Baptist High School Panshin  “ 
8 Teacher’s College  Kagoro 1946 ECWA 
9 Teacher’s College  Kaltungo 1939 “ 
10 Girls Secondary School Kwoi  “ 
11 Kent Academy Jos 1946 “ 
12 Bristow Academy Gboko  NKST 
13 St Michael College  Aliade  Catholic 
14 St Charles College  Ankpa  Catholic 
15 St Francis College Otukpo  Catholic 
16 Wesley High School Otukpo 19 Methodist 
17 Methodist High school Igede 1970 “ 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Background to Educational Sector in Nigeria 
13 
 
18 Jesus College  Otukpo  “ 
19 Lennon Memorial School Ageva-Okene 1967 Anglican* 
Source: *Daily Trust Sunday August 6, 2017. Source: Ogbole History of 
Education in Nigeria. Madugu “History of Education in Nigeria” Lecture 
Notes, University of Jos. 2004. 
In all, the Christian Mission schools both in the South and North were 
characterized by the following: 
1  The content, like the Koranic School, was inclined towards the 
knowledge of the Bible, catechism and the hymns. 
2  The main purpose of the education was to convert learners 
automatically to Christian faith 
3.  They were producing people with only the ability to work as 
salary earners and nothing technological, technical and 
entrepreneurship skills were included. 
4.  The schools lacked uniform standard because there was no 
central control or routine inspection. 
5.  There were poor funding and inadequate working condition for 
teachers 
 
The colonial state involvement in education in Nigeria 
Initially, the government was actually not interested in direct 
investment both in terms of funding and the regulation of the 
educational standard. Prior to amalgamation of the two protectorates, 
the Southern government was able to establish three colleges (See table 
1). The North was afraid of erupting crisis in the emirate areas. This was 
the status-quo until the Zaria experiment by the CMS mission and the 
Phelps Stoke commission report was released in 1922. The report 
criticized the education generally as not meeting the relevant needs of 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                            Onah P. Otumala 
14 
 
the people because it fails to take in to cognizance the African 
environment.16 
It was actually this indictment of the report on education in Nigeria that 
pricked the British colonial state to come up with a Memorandum in 
1925 which spelt out clear direction of education in Nigeria. It also 
included the need to include plans for girls’ education. However, during 
the period of 1930 to 1950, the colonialists could not do much despite 
the good plans in the memorandum. This was occasioned by the general 
depression, lack of funds due to the Second World War expenditure 
which reduced colonial finances to the colonies. In spite of these 
challenges the pressure for higher education from the nationalist 
movements in the West African British territories was so tense that the 
colonial state had to establish the Higher College Yaba, Lagos in 1934 
and the University College Ibadan in 1948.17 This heralded the 
beginning of higher education in Nigeria 
In the course of political development of Nigeria, specifically from 1950s 
when the three regions were given autonomy, each of them adopted the 
Universal Primary Education (UPE) at different times. The Western 
Region led by Chief Obafemi Awolowo first adopted the UPE, making 
education the priority in 1954. This policy put the region ahead of the 
other parts of the country educationally. In the Eastern Region the UPE 
scheme was planned well and launched in 1957. It was not successfully 
carried out in line with plan due to political issues, shortage of 
classrooms, trained teachers, teaching equipment, and opposition from 
some Christian missions. It was abandoned after one year of its 
existence.18 This failure of the UPE to take root in the region actually left 
a deficit on enrolment and the general laxity and foot-dragging attitude 
                                                           16Ogbole 20-22 17Several vibrant nationalist movements were vehemently on the throat of the 
colonial officers both in  Nigeria and Britain see  T.Falola et ai (eds.) History of 
Nigeria: Nigeria in the 20th Century Book3 18See B.M. Ogbole 23-24 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Background to Educational Sector in Nigeria 
15 
 
towards education among the men in that part of Nigeria.19The 
Northern Regional Government did not adopt the UPE scheme but built 
more schools. From 1950s to 1976, education was in the hands of the 
Regional Authorities, and the number of years spent to graduate varied 
from on region to another. This period also contributed immensely to 
the widening of educational gap in enrolment and attainment across the 
country. The education curriculum was not unified but structured based 
on the region.  
 
The Post-independent developments in Nigeria’s education sector 
The most outstanding development in education was the establishment 
of tertiary institutions to meet manpower need of the country. In the 
Development plans of 1960s, first generation universities were 
established in Lagos, Ife, Zaria Benin and Nsukka while the existing 
University College Ibadan was given full status. Unfortunately the 
outbreak of the Civil war in 1967-1970 affected the development of 
education negatively not only in Biafran areas but across the country in 
terms of labour shortage, migration of people, war expenses taken 
large part of the educational funding, and general lack of peace.20 
Universal Primary Education (UPE) was introduced in 1976 as 
nationwide programme by the Head of State, Gen. Gowon to expand 
schools, increase enrollment and blend the primary education in the 
country.  The scheme was not planned well and lack of data for its 
implementation seriously robbed its achievements grossly. For 
instance, lack of qualified teachers was roughly handled by recruiting 
all calibres of people and quacks to teach which rendered huge damage 
to the noble profession as well as compromised the standard of 
                                                           19The Igbo people of the region generally believe that they could make more 
money faster outside formal/ western education and then abandon it for women. 20VS Akran and JN Odoh “Economic Impact of The Nigerian Crisis And Civil War on 
Zaria,1966-1970” Journal of History and Military Studies Vol.3, No 1 Jan 2017. NDA 
kaduna. 229-232 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                            Onah P. Otumala 
16 
 
education generally in the country. However it had succeeded in the 
quantitative direction by providing more schools for the people and 
increased enrolment.21 
Other milestones in education include the introduction of changes into 
the curriculum and publication of the National Policy on Education in 
1977 which defines the philosophy and vision behind education in 
Nigeria. The National Educational resource Development Council 
(NERDC) was instituted to handle curriculum issues generally. In 1989 
the education sector witnessed a change to 6-3-3-4 system where the 
secondary is broken into junior and senior with high emphasis on the 
teaching of technical skills. The goals of the scheme did not yield much 
result but crumbled from the onset for following reasons: 
1. Lack of technological equipment for training. 
2. Lack of skillful teachers to handle the equipment supplied. 
3. High level of corruption and embezzlement in the education 
sector. 
4. Massive establishment of profit oriented private schools and 
collapse of the public ones. 
 
Tertiary Education in Nigeria 
The beginning of higher education started due to pressure from the 
nationalists particularly the National Congress for British West Africa 
(NCBWA) and the West African Students Union (WASU). As mentioned 
earlier, the University of Ibadan from 1948 opened the way for tertiary 
education, after which the federal and states have established many 
higher institutions of learning. Finally, in 1999 the Federal Government 
of President Obasanjo issued licenses to private Universities and other 
tertiary institutions to operate in Nigeria.  See table 4 below. 
 
                                                           2121See P.A. I Obaya “Growth and Development of Education in Nigeria Since 
Independence ”B.Usman et.al. (eds.)  Proceedings of the National Conference on 
in Nigeria Since Independence March 10,1983. Zaria, Gaskiya. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Background to Educational Sector in Nigeria 
17 
 
Table 1.4: Table of summary of approved tertiary institutions in 
Nigeria, as at 2019 below 
Serial no Types of institution quantity 
01 Federal Universities 43 
02 State Universities 48 
03 Private Universities 80 
04 Federal polytechnics 29 
05 State polytechnics 42 
06 Private polytechnics 42 
07 Federal Colleges of Education 24 
08 State Colleges of Education 54 
09 Private Colleges of Education 91 
Source: Nigeria in a Decade. A Special Publication of Industrial Leaders 
Communication Ltd. 
 
Private Sector Involvement in Education in Nigeria. 
The history of private schools in Nigeria started far back in the early 
part of the 20th century when humanitarians and good-spirited 
individuals who valued education started investing in the sector. These 
early school owners were philanthropists rather than opportunists 
who saw need to contribute to the overall development of the society. 
Just like the Christian missionaries, profit was not the driving force for 
establishing schools in Nigeria from the early period till 1990s. Indeed 
most of them set up their schools out of real sacrifice because they 
were mostly established not by the wealthy members of the society but 
the middle class.  For example the first private secondary school is Eko 
Boys High School Lagos, founded on 13th January 1913 by the Rev. 
William Benjamin Euba, a teacher and master of religion at the 
Methodist Boys High School, Lagos. It was with the greatest spirit and a 
desire to establish an African Institution that will provide educational 
opportunities for the less privilege citizens of Lagos that made Rev. 
Euba to establish this school. The school started with 28 students at 30 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                            Onah P. Otumala 
18 
 
Broad street Lagos, next building to St. George’s Hall, Lagos, opposite 
the Methodist Boys High School.22 
It was revealed that this premier private secondary school, like many of 
the period, witnessed rapid growth in enrolment which the available 
classrooms and learning facilities could not sustained, and the 
proprietor was unable to afford the rent. The school moved and 
relocated three times within the early years of its establishment. 
Students were not heavily charged to raise the money for 
accommodation and the premises. The principal was equally an 
embodiment of sacrifice like the proprietor. This explained why the 
school was totally handed over to him, (Mr. O.E Roberts) On October 
8th 1931, the proprietorship of the school in a declaration stated thus: 
“I William Benjamin Euba, founder and proprietor of 
Eko Boys High School, Lagos hereby decide to assign all 
and singular of my interest in the said school to my 
assistant Mr. Obadiah Edward Roberts the present 
principal of the school, absolutely in consideration of 
his services to the school and pecuniary expenses 
incurred by him on behalf of the school and otherwise 
to the intent that henceforth the said Obadiah Edward 
Roberts shall enjoy the whole and full benefits and 
advantage of the said school and the future profits 
thereof as fully as I have done hitherto. And Mr. O.E. 
Roberts shall use his best endeavour to maintain as he 
has done in the past the reputation of the said school”23 
 
The sacrifice was clear from the declaration above. Presently, is there 
any proprietor or proprietress that can release his/her school to the 
principal? What of his children and grand-children? The sacrifice of the 
principal, Mr. Roberts continued until 1941 when he donated his piece 
                                                           22 23 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Background to Educational Sector in Nigeria 
19 
 
of land to build the school permanent site in Mushin Lagos. Other 
private owned schools with community-based institutions were 
popularly in the south and the Middle Belt, owned jointly by the 
villages, clans and communities which the core north did not establish. 
The new private schools of the 1990s came into being because of the 
long abandonment and neglect to fund public owned schools by the 
military governments. They are profit driven and basically one man 
business enterprises. There are purely elitist in nature both in terms of 
cost, location, and structures. These schools charges tuition fees 
ranging from #500,000 to #5 million per term and were totally 
outrageous.  These had denied the families of the rural poor and the 
lower rungs and subordinate workers in the Nigerian society good 
education. It has also permanently aliened the existing relationship and 
fraternization which hitherto flourished in schools from 1960s 
between the children of the top and those of the lower levels of the 
society. 
The licenses given to the private universities and other tertiary 
institutions to establish and operate in 1999 by Obasanjo government 
was vital landmark in the history of education in Nigeria. After 20 years 
of the privatization of higher education, the numbers have gone beyond 
expectation as more are in the way.24 In 2011, the government of 
President Goodluck Jonathan wanted to bridge the south-north 
educational gap and boost enrolment in the policy of Amajiri Schools. 
This attempt was rejected and denied support by people of the north so 
it died naturally. 
 
 
 
 
                                                           24In January 2021, the Federal Executive Council  approved 20 new private 
universities in Nigeria 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                            Onah P. Otumala 
20 
 
Conclusion 
The long years of military rule and bastardization of education through 
poor remuneration, lack of training, poor facilities and incentives, 
exemplified by massive labour migration to developed countries of the 
world, uncountable strikes, corruption and embezzlement, quackery 
and incompetence among others had automatically devalued the public 
schools for the boosting of the exploitative profit oriented private 
schools in the country. Today there is no proper and effective 
regulation of the standard of private schools except the universities 
carried out by the National University Commission (NUC), National 
Commission for Colleges of Education (NCCE), and National Board for 
Technology Education (NBTE). Also, western education came from the 
southern part of Nigeria which had gone far beyond the northern parts 
whose peoples were dragging foot, moving sluggishly but also still 
reject it in many dimensions. 
Generally, there is massive progress in quantitative education 
particularly in terms of the number of schools, increase in enrolment 
and the graduates turn out across all levels of education. The quality of 
education does not however grow with the pace of the quantity of 
education because of lack of political will among the elites and 
leadership class in Nigeria to invest in the sector. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Education in Nigeria 
21 
 
    22 22    
 National Youth Service Corps and Education in 
Nigeria 
 
 
Achiaku Fanen 
 
 
Introduction 
The genesis of National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) can be traced to 
the immediate post-independence era of Nigeria. The period which was 
characterised by ethnic loyalties, mutual group suspicion and distrust 
that culminated in the traumatic events of a bloody civil war. During 
the time, Nigeria was further plagued by associated problems of under-
development such as: poverty, mass illiteracy, acute shortage of high-
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                                 Achiaku Fanen 
22 
 
skilled manpower, woeful inadequate socio-economic infrastructural 
facilities.1 
At the end of the Nigerian civil war, the Nigerian government led by 
Gen. Yakubu Gowon was faced with onerous task of nation-building to 
curb the issues of ethno-regional affiliation and religious crisis. The 
compulsory one year service for graduates ensures unity.  In same vein, 
the scheme evolved the posting of Corps members to institutions of 
learning for educational purpose2. 
Since the inception of NYSC, federal government of Nigeria has been 
making efforts to improve the level of literacy in the nation through the 
National Youth Service Corps scheme. Through the NYSC scheme, the 
federal government has promoted formal and informal education for 
the communities of the 36 states in the federation. This is why most of 
the Corps members of NYSC are posted to primary, secondary schools, 
colleges of education, polytechnics and universities as places for their 
primary assignment. The Corps member of NYSC has played vital roles 
in the education of the host community members3. Against this 
backdrop, the study examines the NYSC scheme and the development 
of education in Nigeria with a highlight on its intervention, roles, 
impact and challenges. 
 
 
 
                                                           1Veronica E. Elemure, Effectiveness of the National Youth Service Corps Scheme 
Among 2012-2013 Corps Members in Lagos and Oyo States, Nigeria. (Ibadan: 
University of Ibadan unpublished Thesis, 2015) 22. 2W. O Ibukun and A. Aboluwodi, “Nigeria’s National Policy on Education and The 
University Curriculum in History: Implication for Nation Building,” Journal of 
Education and Practice 1, no 2 (2010): 14 3M. A. Oyebamiji and Inemesit Essiet Umofia, “Influence of The Activities of The 
National Youth Service Corps Scheme on The Knowledge of Social Issues in Host 
Communities in Rivers and Akwa Ibom States,” International Journal of Education 
and Evaluation, 2, no.1 (2016): 29. Issn 2489-0073  Www.Iiardpub.Org 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Education in Nigeria 
23 
 
Conceptual Clarification 
To ensure a proper understanding of the topic, an elucidation of some 
key concepts is necessary. 
 
Education 
Education is the important means through which the society 
qualitatively by improves itself, passes its main characteristics to 
generations as well as dynamic instrument of change and 
development.4  According to Osinilu, education is the process of 
providing information to an inexperience person to help the individual 
develop physically, mentally, socially, economically, politically and even 
spiritually.5  Ocho in his opinion stated that, education is the process 
through which individuals are made functional members of their 
society.6 
In every society, education connotes acquisition of knowledge which is 
the most valuable thing in life. Thus, no community will remain 
underdeveloped if it has the needed capital and has properly invested 
in human capital through viable and qualitative education. This is 
because the acquired knowledge and skills will guarantee the economic 
and social liberation of the individual and by implication enhance their 
contribution to the community and national development7.In essence, 
this has prompted the then United Nations (UN) secretary general Kofi 
Anan to state that to “educate the child is to reduce poverty,” Many 
                                                           4  K.K Abbagana, “Girl-Child Education; A critical issue for National Development in 
Nigeria,” Journal of Education and leadership development 5, no 2, (2013): 2. 5 C. Osinlu,“Women Education” in Akinkugbe, Nigeria and Education; The 
challenge Ahead proceedings and Policy Recommendation of the 2nd Obafemi 
Awolowo Foudation Dialogue (Ibadan: Spectrum books, 1994), 16 6 O. Ocho,Culture and Girl Child Education (Enugu: Institute of Development 
Studies, 2005), 2. 7K.K Abbagana “Girl-Child Education; A critical...p2 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                                 Achiaku Fanen 
24 
 
studies have taught us that there is no tool for development more 
effective than the education of girls8. 
Therefore, as a result of the importance attached to educating the child, 
successive governments in Nigeria have developed several policies and 
programmes to ensure that children in Nigeria are given the right to 
education every Nigerian child ought to get to make them functional in 
the society in line with the 1999 United Nations Children Emergency 
Fund (UNICEF) child right-act which stressed that, every child [male or 
female] is entitled to receive free and compulsory basic education and 
equal opportunity for higher education9.  
Education is implicitly a part of culture as it is a life-long learning 
process that enables a person, irrespective of age; understand the 
relationship between the environment and his or her peculiar 
circumstances. Education, whether formal, informal or non- formal, 
helps towards the development of a complete, balanced and rational 
personality. Consequently, the lack of education will have negative 
influences on the individual, family and society at large10. It is in view 
of the importance of education that the NYSC scheme was designed to 
have its contribution to the development of education in the country. 
 
 
 
                                                           8Kofi Anan cited in May A. Rihani. Keeping the Promise; Five Benefits of Girls 
Secondary Education (Washington: Academy for Educational Development, 2006), 
5 9 V.O Money and J. Erhinyodavwe “Girl-Child Education in Nigeria; Some militating 
Factors and the way forward” Nigeria Journal of Teacher Education and Teaching, 
Vol. 1, No 1, 2005.P. 6 10Kobani Doreen “Impact of girl-child education on community development; a 
study of Ika Local Government of Akwa Ibom State,” Journal of Research on 
Humanities and Social Science 4, no. 12, (20014): 122. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Education in Nigeria 
25 
 
Background to the Development of Education in Nigeria from 
1960 
It is widely accepted that education is the aggregate of all the processes 
by which a child or young adult develops the abilities, attributes and 
forms of behaviour which are of positive value to the society in which 
he/she lives. Invariably, it is a process for growth and dissemination of 
knowledge either to ensure social control or to guarantee systems. 
Whether traditional or western-oriented, it seeks to achieve these goals 
irrespective of curriculum, methods and organisation designed for the 
purpose.  The colonial education inherited by Nigeria was that which 
did not conform to the already existing traditional education. The 
western colonial education failed to conform to the indigenous 
education as imposing of the foreign system on the traditional 
framework did not lead to a happy fusion of the systems11. 
The colonial education which was inherited by Nigeria was criticised 
for being too theoretical to be able to make meaningful impact on the 
life of Nigerians. Subjects taught in schools reflected the taste of the 
colonial education officials; hence school curricula were built around 
the existing colonial values. Students were supposed to mimic their 
teachers in subject like English Language which involved 
demonstration of competency. The same problem which informed 
dependency on past colonial education relics seems to have continued 
till date12. 
Within the first two decades of Nigeria’s independence, the education 
system and policy were characterised by series of committees and 
conferences. Concrete steps toward curriculum reforms started in 1966 
by the National Education Research Council (NERC) under Chief 
Awokoya13. In September, 1969 the curriculum reform conference was 
                                                           11Babs Fanfua,History of Education in Nigeria, (London: Routledge, 2018), 17. 12W. O Ibukun and A. Aboluwodi, “Nigeria’s National Policy on Education,9. 13W. O Ibukun and A. Aboluwodi, “Nigeria’s National Policy on Education,10s 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                                 Achiaku Fanen 
26 
 
held with discussions on appropriate curriculum contents and 
problems in Nigeria. Further conferences in 1973 led to the production 
of the National Policy on Education in 1977, 1981 and 2004. The 
production of this document and the eventual take-off of the policy in 
1982 in some states of the country marked the end of the post-
independence piece-meal and rather disjointed adjustments to the 
colonial education heritage bequeathed on Nigeria14 . 
Adopting education as an instrument for effecting national 
development, the Federal government of Nigeria realised that 
education is not only the greatest force that can be used to bring about 
redress, but also an investment which the nation makes for the quick 
development of its economic, political, sociological and human 
resources15 . In order to fully realise the potential contributions of 
education to the achievement of such desires, the National Policy on 
Education in Nigeria was launched in 1977. The orientation of the 
policy is geared towards self-realization, individual and national 
efficiency and national unity aimed at achieving social, cultural, 
economic, political, scientific and technological development. In 1985, 
the objectives of the policy were broadened to include free primary 
education among others. However, this policy has been reviewed from 
time to time16. 
Until 1984, the structure of Nigeria education system was 6 years of 
primary schools, 5 to 7 years of post-primary schools (Secondary, 
Teacher Training College and sixth form) and 4 to 6 yrs of tertiary 
education (College of education, polytechnics, College of Technology 
and University education). From 1985, the structure that emanated can 
be classified thus, pre-primary or kindergarten education (2 to 3 yrs), 
                                                           14 W. O Ibukun and A. Aboluwodi, “Nigeria’s National Policy on Education,10-11 15Adamu Anjikwi Mbahi, An Investigation Into The Factors Which Determine 
Students' Choice of Art Education in Secondary Schools in Nigeria, (London: 
University of London, unpublished Dissertation, 1990), 17 16O. B. Adesina “The Effect of National Youth Service Corps Teachers,  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Education in Nigeria 
27 
 
for the children of ages 3 to 5 years the primary school which is of 6 
years period for children of ages 6 to 11 yrs, the post primary 
education which is of 6 years duration but divided into two halves (3 
years of Junior Secondary School and 3 years of Senior Secondary 
School) and the 4 to 6 of tertiary education level. This is called the 6-3-
3-4 system17. 
The National Policy on Education has provisions for the teaching of 
basic subjects and courses at all levels of education. At the primary 
level, the general objectives of education include: "the inculcation of 
permanent literacy and the ability to communicate effectively; giving 
the child opportunities to develop manipulative skills that will enable 
him to function effectively in the society within the limits of his 
capacity18. On Nigeria’s return to democracy, led by the Olusegun 
Obasanjo administration in 1999, the Nation launched a Universal Basic 
Education Scheme. The specific targets of the Scheme were total 
eradication of illiteracy by the year 2010 and increase in adult literacy 
rate from 57% to 70% by 200319.  The National Policy on Education has 
provisions for the teaching of basic subjects and courses at all levels of 
education. At the primary level, the general objectives of education 
include: "the inculcation of permanent literacy and the ability to 
communicate effectively; giving the child opportunities to develop 
manipulative skills that will enable him to function effectively in the 
society within the limits of his capacity20. 
The goals currently emphasized in general education centre on 
contemporary life outside schools - economic recovery, social justice, 
employment, training, self-employment, patriotism, etc. There is a little 
                                                           17O. B. Adesina “The Effect of National Youth Service Corps Teachers, 3 18A.A.Mbahi, An Investigation Into The Factors Which Determine Students', 17 19L.A. Amaghionyeodiwe&T.S. Osinubi, “The Nigerian Educational System and 
Returns to Education,” International Journal of Applied Econometrics and 
Quantitative Studies, 3, no.1 (2006): 23. 20A.A.Mbahi, An Investigation Into The Factors Which Determine Students', 17. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                                 Achiaku Fanen 
28 
 
regard for the promotion of sensory experiences, creativity and 
experiment in learners. It is also the responsibility of education to 
assist students to see, understand and appreciate things. In other 
words, education should help children to use their natural capabilities 
for perceiving efficiently - to have eyes that 'see', ears that 'hear', minds 
that 'think' and to have hands that manipulate. The development of 
these skills is crucial to children that it should not be left to chance in 
the society, but entrusted to specially train professional teachers21. 
However, the Nigerian educational system today still follows the rigid 
structure of time periods and grade-level progression found in Western 
education.” Where there is little change in the curriculum, it is either 
one subject is substituted for the other or dropped outright22. on the 
other hand, in the past two decades on the nation’s return to 
democracy and avowed decision in eradicating illiteracy, instead of 
getting the best from the lean input in the field in budgetary allocations, 
the educational sector has continued to experience very low funding. 
As a result, educationists have had the opinion that Nigeria’s 
educational system is witnessing high increase in rate of students` poor 
academic performance most especially at the secondary school level. 
Invariably, this affects and militates against the overall standard of 
education. There is this believe that education is not just decreasing but 
decreasing at an alarming as well as increasing rate. In south west 
Nigeria secondary schools, students’ academic performance is poor 
generally going by existing records23. 
 
Dearth of teachers in Nigeria Primary, Secondary and Tertiary 
Education in Nigeria 
Teachers are those who are trained and equipped professionally to 
guide the act of teaching in the classroom. When teachers are not well-
                                                           21A.A.Mbahi, An Investigation Into The Factors Which Determine Students', 19-20. 22W. O Ibukun and A. Aboluwodi, “Nigeria’s National Policy on Education, 9. 23O. B. Adesina “The Effect of National Youth Service Corps Teachers, 3. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Education in Nigeria 
29 
 
equipped and lack the quality wherewithal of instruction that is 
expected of them, what they give to pupils/students they teach will be 
of worse quality and the outcome of such learning will be half-baked 
and of low value.24 Historically, teacher shortage is not the exclusive 
problem in Nigerian educational system. It is a world phenomenon. The 
UNESCO Report of 1997 indicated that as at 1980, the world with total 
population of 5.5 billion only had 40 million teachers in its teaching 
profession which gave the average of one teacher per 112 inhabitants. 
In 1965, there were 100 secondary school teachers for 150,000 people 
in Africa25. According to Tayo and Bukola it has been observed that the 
total number of teachers available in Nigerian secondary schools is far 
below the needed for efficiency and effectiveness in the delivery of 
instructions26. 
Research indicates that the total number of teachers available in 
secondary schools in Nigeria is far below required for effective 
implementation of curriculum content. Specifically, UNESCO’s report 
shows that the total number of teachers available in Nigeria in 2009 
was 466,800 and that in 2015, 688,200 teachers were needed. This 
demonstrates that Nigeria needs to increase the number of its teaching 
employees by 6.68% yearly to meet the teachers demand as 
recommended by UNESCO27. 
Furthermore, the Nigerian school system is increasingly challenged 
with many complex problems most notably, teacher shortage as there 
                                                           24 Y.A. Abubakar & I.M. Akambi, “Addressing the Factors Responsible For Schooling 
without Learning in Primary and Secondary Schools in Nigeria,” International 
Journal of Synergy and Research 7, (2018): 171. Doi: 10.17951 
http://Ijsr.Journals.Umcs.Pl 25Tayo Subair & Rachael Bukola Talabi “Teacher Shortage in Nigerian Schools: 
Causes, Effects and Administrators Coping Strategies” Asia Pacific Journal of 
Education, Arts and Sciences 2, no. 4, (2015): 32. 26Tayo Subair & Rachael Bukola Talabi “Teacher Shortage in Nigerian Schools, 32. 27Unesco/Efa Global Monitoring Report, Unesco, Paris. (2009), 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                                 Achiaku Fanen 
30 
 
is a general outcry that the standards of education are falling and 
morals flagging. Some blame pupils for this apparent decline in quality 
of education and moral values. A thoughtful few think that they are due 
to the nature of changes in all directions. Majority blame the teachers 
for the woes in our schools. They are not as devoted and dedicated to 
the cause of education as their predecessors. Teachers as a group 
blame parents and the children. They also blame government for 
unattractive condition of service and poor physical facilities in some 
parts of the educational system. The problem of declining quality of 
education can be attributed to inadequate number of teachers to teach, 
inspect and supervise pupils and students. The outcome of lack of 
adequate teaching, inspection and supervision is seen in the declining 
quality of Education28 
The principal of Government College Makurdi in responding to NYSC 
and Development of education further stressed that, her colleagues 
have retired. She and others are about to retire and the ever expanding 
school system requires a corresponding number of adequately trained 
teachers to fill the void created by teachers who are no more. She 
emphasized that, if there was no increase in total enrolment of primary 
and secondary learners, school system must still recruit teachers yearly 
to replace its losses due to death, retirement, change of profession, 
marriage of women teacher and other causes29. 
More so, poor working conditions represent one of the major factors 
for the high dropout rate among teachers during their first years of 
                                                           28F. E. Arong & M. A Ogbadu “Major Causes of Declining Quality of Education in 
Nigeria from Administrative Perspective: A Case Study of Dekina Local 
Government Area,” Canadian Social Science6, no. 3 (2010): 184. 29Oral interview with Agnes Dookenter, 55+, Female, school Administrator at 
government college Makurdi on 11th February 2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Education in Nigeria 
31 
 
work. Poor working conditions affect teachers’ level of satisfaction 
hence their unwillingness to continue teaching30. 
In line with Yusuf’s observation, a visit to some public and private 
primary schools in selected local governments of Benue State revealed 
that majority of schools domiciled in rural areas are short of teachers to 
teach children31. The situation is worrisome as many teachers in the 
rural areas often seek transfer into the schools that are domiciled in the 
city or jobs and business endeavours with better remuneration32. 
A 2007 research in Kebbi indicated that, there was shortage of qualified 
teaching staff in the available secondary schools in Kalgo Local 
Government Area of Kebbi State. This is not uncommon in the whole 
twenty one (21) Local Government Areas of the State. This ugly 
situation is due to the negligence of the education sector by the state 
government since the inception of the current administration in the 
state in 200733. 
As a result of inadequate replacement in the already understaffed 
educational sector, the NYSC has helped to cover to some extent the gap 
created by the shortage of teachers. The principal GCM stated that 
using her school as an example, the number of NYSC for the school 
would have been significant but never be enough despite the fact that 
                                                           30R.M. Ingersoll, “Turnover among Mathematics and Science Teachers,” The U.S, 
National Commission on Mathematics and Science Teaching For the 21st Century, 
(2000): 15.Http://Www.Ed.Gov 31Y.A. Abubakar & I.M. Akambi, “Addressing the Factors Responsible For Schooling 
without Learning, 171 32Oral Interview with Sase Andrew Terfa, age 55+, Male, Principal at Government 
Secondary School Gboko, Benue state on 15th February, 2021 33A.J. Ifeanyichukwu & N. Apine, “The Problems and Negative Effects of The Use of 
National Youths Service Corps (Nysc) Members as Ad-Hoc Teaching Staff in 
Nigeria: A Case Study of Kalgo Local Government Area of Kebbi State,” Iosr Journal 
of Research & Method In Education4, Issue 6 (2014): 3.Www.Iosrjournals.Org 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                                 Achiaku Fanen 
32 
 
she had to reject some who do not have basic requirements for 
teaching. 
Accordingly, the NYSC State Coordinator of Benue State posited that, 
there is a dire need by principals and proprietors who keep requesting 
for Corps members to alleviate the problem of teacher shortage in their 
schools. Therefore, when Corps members are to be posted to their 
places of primary assignment, the educational sector is given 
consideration above other sectors. He stressed that 70% of the Corps 
members are posted to schools where they can render services as it has 
been observed that other sectors such as ministries underutilize Corps 
members or limit them to secretariat duties running in contrast with 
their fields of study thereby making some Corps members redundant at 
a time when schools are sending formal request for Corps member to 
be posted to their schools34. 
The effect of shortage of teachers is not limited to poor quality of 
instructional materials and poor students’ academic performance, but 
also has a devastating effect on both the schools’ administrators and 
the teaching personnel35. However, as the shortage of qualified teachers 
has continued unabated, Corps members are used because they serve 
as source of cheap labour especially to state governments and private 
organizations who do not want to employ permanent staff because of 
the cost implications. The allowance payable by the federal government 
of Nigeria to every Corps member is N33,000 per month at present. 
State governments and private organizations where the Corps 
members are posted are allowed under the law to pay the Corps 
members whatever they like depending on their financial strength. This 
provision has been seriously abused. Some states pay as low as N3,500 
per month. The Corps Members are made to do more work with less 
                                                           34Oral Interview with Shicha Joshua Simon, 50+, male, NYSC State Coordinator at 
NYSC State Secretariat Makurdi, Benue State on 11th February, 2021. 35Adesina C. Declining Quality Education in History of Education in Nigeria, 
(Ibadan: Educational Publishers Ltd, 1977),  10 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Education in Nigeria 
33 
 
pay36. More so, it is notable that some private secondary schools are in 
the habit of recruiting Corps members every year without any attempt 
at retaining them as permanent staff37. 
From the foregoing, it is evident that Corps members have been used 
across the nation to bridge the gap in supply of teachers. There is no 
doubt that if we want to raise the standard of education in Nigeria, the 
recruitment of adequate and qualified teachers are needed. 
Additionally, training and retraining of teachers in the right quantity 
and quality is sacrosanct. Also, efforts should be increased with regard 
to retaining Corps members and ensure their continuous professional 
development in teaching through capacity building programmes such 
as workshops and seminars in order to unceasingly update their 
professional knowledge and skills to ensure effective actualization of 
the Universal Basic Education (UBE) objectives38. 
 
The Role of NYSC in the development of Education in Nigeria 
The NYSC has been in the forefront towards the development of 
primary, secondary and communal education of the Nigerian populace 
both in rural and urban centres. The NYSC has also remained in the 
vanguard of the nation's drive to promote self-help initiatives in rural 
and urban communities through the various development programmes 
executed by Corps members with active participation of Community 
members.39 
 
                                                           36A.J. Ifeanyichukwu & N.Apine “The Problems and Negative Effects of the Use of 
National Youths Service Corps, 1. 37Veronica E. Elemure, Effectiveness of the National Youth Service Corps Scheme, 
29-31. 38Y.A. Abubakar & I.M. Akambi, “Addressing the Factors Responsible For Schooling 
without Learning, 175 39National Youth Service Corps, “Abc” Of Community Development Service, 1. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                                 Achiaku Fanen 
34 
 
Some of the Notable non curricula educational roles of the NYSC Corps 
members are: 
/head2right Sensitization of the public on fundamental human rights  
/head2right Public lecture and awareness on fundamental human rights.  
/head2right Career guidance and counselling for students  
/head2right Awareness campaign on sustainable environmental 
management and regeneration.  
/head2right Making presentations in the mass media to enlighten people on 
socio-cultural education.  
/head2right To contribute to public safety on our roads through 
sensitization and control of traffic and the Establishment of 
road safety clubs in schools.  
/head2right Awareness campaign on the danger of drug abuse. 
/head2right To disseminate information on how to manage disasters 
through Corps Emergency Vanguards40 . 
The various CDS groups in charge of the various sensitization programs 
afford the Corps members, through working with the local inhabitants, 
greater insights into local traditions and customs and general 
knowledge of the people; motivate local communities towards self-help 
projects41 . Other means of information and enlightenment operate 
independently and have been accessible to the public in one form or 
the other. The activities of the Corps members aimed at improving 
knowledge on social issues are put in place to assist these independent 
agencies of the society to educate the public42. NYSC Corps members 
are put on duty at least once a month with an experienced teacher. 
                                                           40 National Youth Service Corps, “Abc” Of Community Development Service, 5 41 Oyebamiji, M. A. And Adekola, G. Fundamentals of Community Development in 
Nigeria, (Port Harcourt:University Of Port Harcourt Press, 2008), 101. 42 Aremu, Fatai Ayinde “National Youth Service Corps Programme and the Quest 
for National Integration: Issues for Policy Consideration,” Journal of Management 
and Social Sciences (2018),  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Education in Nigeria 
35 
 
He/she is expected to write and submit a report of the period under 
duty43. 
 
The Impact of NYSC on Education in Nigeria 
The one year service begins with a three week camp orientation during 
which the prospective Corps members are formally inducted into the 
scheme, and exposed to its underlying objectives. Afterwards, the Corps 
members are deployed to various public and private sector 
establishments. These establishments are regarded as their areas of 
primary assignment. They include schools, hospitals, agricultural 
establishments, government ministries, and various other sectors (both 
public and private).44  
The concept of community development is an educational method by 
NYSC in which the efforts of the Corps members themselves are united 
with those of governmental authorities to improve the economic, social 
and cultural conditions of Corps members host communities, to 
integrate the Corps members into the commercial, social and industrial 
life of the nation, to enable them to contribute fully to national 
progress.45  
The SAED of the NYSC programme that was introduced in 2012 started 
with 12 different categories of skills offered in this SAED program. 
These skills areas include Agro-allied, Automobile, Beautification, 
Construction, Cosmetology, Culture and Tourism, Education, 
Environment, Film and Photography, Food Processing/Preservation, 
Information Communication Technology and Power and Energy.  The 
SAED educates and equips Corps members with knowledge for 
                                                           43Oral interview with Agnes Dookenter, 55+, Female, school Administrator at 
government college Makurdi on 11th February 2021. 44 A.J. Ifeanyichukwu & N.Apine “The Problems and Negative Effects of the Use of 
National Youths Service, 1 45 Onyeozu, A. M. Understanding Community Development, (Port Harcourt: 
Davidstones Publishers Ltd, 2007), 20. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                                 Achiaku Fanen 
36 
 
entrepreneurship and the ability to train other members of the 
community46. Annually, the programme mobilizes and prepares over 
two hundred and fifty thousand (250,000) youths to become 
employable or start-up their own businesses after completing their 
mandatory one-year service. The sole objective of these programmes is 
to encourage the Nigerians generally, and Nigeria youths particularly, 
to highly involve in skill acquisition for creating jobs.47  
 
Major Challenges faced by NYSC in the Development of Education 
in Nigeria 
Firstly, there is currently short supply of Corps members. As a result of 
the COVID-19 pandemic and the national health requirements in safety 
measures, the state no longer has the capacity of two thousand five 
hundred Corps members it used to receive previously. The states boast 
of only twice lesser than those figures. This has created a gap/shortage 
of Corps members posted to schools for the purpose of teaching 
thereby resulting to an increase in demand for Corps members by 
institutions48 . 
Furthermore, change in educational system and curriculum also affects 
Corps member’s contribution to education. Teacher education 
programme has not been effectively done to take into cognisance the 
changing nature of the education system in the last few decades. 
Teacher preparation and university instructional programmes for 
secondary school teachers-to-be must be relevant to the 
teaching/learning situation in the secondary schools given the 
prevailing challenges in the world today49 .The principal Government 
College Makurdi, while discussing about the standard of education, 
                                                           46 Debom. M. Tambari and D. I. Taylor, “The Influence of National Youth Service 
Corps, 147. 47Ibid  149. 48Oral Interview with Shicha Joshua Simon, 50+, male, NYSC State Coordinator at 
NYSC State Secretariat Makurdi, Benue State on 11th February, 2021. 49 W. O Ibukun and A. Aboluwodi, “Nigeria’s National Policy on Education, 11. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Education in Nigeria 
37 
 
pointed out that change is a constant phenomenon in life but Nigerian 
government educational policy change is too erratic. The policies are 
hardly stable. The school system had been 7-5-4 to 6-6-4 to 6-3-3-4. 
The policy makers remove some subjects totally from the school 
curriculum like history or merge other subjects into one such as 
National values, civic education, basic education, basic tech. change is 
good but the abrupt change inconsistently is drawing the teachers and 
learners backward. This situation makes it difficult for Corps members 
to handle subjects that have been merged and require two to four 
teachers to teach and examine learners. Moderations should be made 
because changing completely isn’t good as consistency makes teachers 
and learners perform better. Policy makers should look closely at what 
suits teachers and learners and stop obstructing or confusing both the 
learner and teachers as we now have. 
 
Conclusion 
From the discus above, it is evident that Corps members have been 
used across the nation to bridge the gap in supply of teachers. The 
NYSC scheme has contributed to the development of education through 
formal and non-formal means. The Corps members have served as 
teachers in primary, secondary and tertiary levels of education. 
However, they are mostly used at the secondary level. The most 
significant challenge notable in the discus is that of short supply of 
Corps members. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and the national 
health requirements in safety measures, and also change in educational 
system and curriculum also affects Corps members contribution to 
education. 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                                 Achiaku Fanen 
38 
 
Bibliography  
Interviews  
Oral interview with Agnes Dookenter, 55+, Female, school 
Administrator at government college Makurdi on 11th 
February 2021. 
Oral Interview with Akaa Moti Fred, age 50+, Teacher at Government 
Secondary School Gboko, Benue State.  
Oral Interview with Sase Andrew Terfa, age 55+, Male, Principal at 
Government Secondary School Gboko, Benue state on 15th 
February, 2021  
Oral Interview with Shicha Joshua Simon, 50+, male, NYSC State 
Coordinator at NYSC State Secretariat Makurdi, Benue State on 
11th February, 2021.  
 
Published Works  
Adamu Anjikwi Mbahi, An Investigation Into The Factors Which 
Determine Students' Choice of Art Education in Secondary 
Schools in Nigeria, University of London, Dissertation, 1990.  
Adesina C. Declining Quality Education in History of Education in 
Nigeria, Ibadan: Educational Publishers Ltd, 1977.  
Amaghionyeodiwe, L.A and Osinubi, T.S. “The Nigerian Educational 
System and Returns to Education,” International Journal of 
Applied Econometrics and Quantitative Studies, 3, no.1, 2006.  
Amaka, John Ifeanyichukwu and Nor Apine “The Problems and 
Negative Effects of The Use of National Youths Service Corps 
(NYSC) Members as Ad-Hoc Teaching Staff in Nigeria: A Case 
Study of Kalgo Local Government Area of Kebbi State,” Iosr 
Journal of Research & Method In Education, 4, Issue 6, 2014. 01-
05 Www.Iosrjournals.Org 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Education in Nigeria 
39 
 
Aremu, Fatai Ayinde “National Youth Service Corps Programme and the 
Quest for National Integration: Issues for Policy Consideration,” 
Journal of Management and Social Sciences, 2018.  
Arong F. E. and Ogbadu M. A, “Major Causes of Declining Quality of 
Education in Nigeria From Administrative Perspective: A Case 
Study of Dekina Local Government Area,” Canadian Social 
Science 6, No. 3, 2010. 183-198. Babs Fanfua History of 
Education in Nigeria, London: Routledge, 2018.  
Chioma Onwere National Youth Service Corps Programme and National 
Integration in Nigeria, University of London Thesis, 1992.  
Dabo Steve Azi and Azi Sambo, “Augustine Enhancing Job Satisfaction 
for Teachers: A Strategy for Achieving Transformation of 
Secondary Education,” Nigeria Journal of Education and 
Practice, 7, no.13, 2016. Issn 2222-288x (Online) 
Www.Iiste.Org 23  
Deebom, Mtormabari Tambari and Daerego, Ilomabo Taylor, “The 
Influence of National Youth Service Corps Entrepreneurship 
Skill Acquisition Programmes on Youth Empowerment in 
Rivers State, International,” Journal of Humanities Social 
Sciences and Education 7, Issue 6 (2020), 146-155. 
Doi.Org/10.20431/2349-0381.0706016 Www.Arcjournals.Org 
Eugene Owusu-Acheampong and Asamoah Appiah Williams “Dearth of 
Teachers in Rural Basic Schools: Implications on Human 
Resource Development,” The Amenfi West District, Ghana 
British Journal of Education, 3, no.1, 2013. 32-43. 
Www.Eajournals.Org 
Ibukun W. O and Aboluwodi A, “Nigeria’s National Policy on Education 
and The University Curriculum in History: Implication for 
Nation Building” Journal of Education and Practice, 1, No 2 
(2010)  
Ingersoll, R.M. “Turnover among Mathematics and Science Teachers” 
The U.S, National Commission on Mathematics and Science 
Teaching For the 21st Century, 2000. Http://Www.Ed.Gov 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                                 Achiaku Fanen 
40 
 
National Youth Service Corps, “Abc” Of Community 
Development Service, Abuja: NYSC October, 2014.  
Odufowokan Benard Adesina “The Effect of National Youth Service 
Corps Teachers` Input on Students` Academic Performance in 
Secondary Schools in Ogun State, Nigeria,” E Leader Singapore, 
2013.  
Okpalaoka, S.C.C, Major Problems Confronting The Effective 
Implementation of Art Curriculum Plans in Our Schools and 
Teacher Training Colleges. Nigerian Society for Education 
through Art. Vol.1, no.5, 1982.  
Onyeozu, A. M. Understanding Community Development, Port 
Harcourt: Davidstones Publishers Ltd, 2007.  
Oribabor, O.A “The Problems and Prospects of Teaching of English 
Language in Ife Central Local Government of Osun State,” 
Journal of Literature, Languages and Linguistics 4, 2014.  
Oyebamiji M. A and Inemesit Essiet Umofia, “Influence of The Activities 
of The National Youth Service Corps Scheme on The Knowledge 
of Social Issues in Host Communities in Rivers and Akwa Ibom 
States,” International Journal of Education and Evaluation, 2, 
no.1, 2016. Issn 2489-0073 Www.Iiardpub.Org 
Oyebamiji, M. A. And Adekola, G. Fundamentals of Community 
Development in Nigeria, Port Harcourt: University Of Port 
Harcourt Press, 2008.  
Tayo Subair & Rachael Bukola Talabi “Teacher Shortage in Nigerian 
Schools: Causes, Effects and Administrators Coping Strategies” 
Asia Pacific Journal of Education, Arts and Sciences, 2 No. 4, 
2015.  
The Guardian, Global Teacher Shortage Threatens Progress on 
Education, 
Https://Www.Theguardian.Com/GlobalDevelopment/Datablog
/2011/Oct/07/Un Unesco/Efa Global Monitoring Report, 
Unesco, Paris, 2009.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Education in Nigeria 
41 
 
Veronica E. Elemure, Effectiveness of the National Youth Service Corps 
Scheme Among 2012 2013 Corps Members in Lagos and Oyo 
States, Nigeria. University of Ibadan, unpublished Thesis, 2015. 
World Bank, World Bank / Dfid Education Sector Public 
Expenditure Review, World Bank, Abuja. 2008. 
Yusuf Abiola Abubakar and Ibrahim Musa Akambi, “Addressing the 
Factors Responsible For Schooling without Learning in Primary 
and Secondary Schools in Nigeria, International Journal of 
Synergy and Research Doi: 10.17951/Ijsr.2018.7.161-178 
Http://Ijsr.Journals.Umcs.Pl 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                             Onah P. Otumala 
42 
 
    33 33    
    Knowledge Deficit in Nigerian Education and NYSC 
Scheme: A Nexus’ 
 
 
Onah P. Otumala 
 
 
Introduction 
Education is an all-embracing sector of national development that 
every other sector relied on for survival and progress.“It is transmitting 
the cultural heritage and values to the younger generations of the 
society. It is this inter-generational transmission of cultural heritage 
that is the primary meaning and function of education.”1 
                                                           1PAIObanyaEducation: The Answer to All Societal Problems. 4 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Knowledge Deficit in Nigerian Education and NYSC Scheme: 
43 
 
This chapter examines the general view of the education sector in 
Nigeria. This study focuses on the current state of education, 
attempting to assess and appraise its development stride and deficit in 
the country. Finally, the study attempts solutions to those educational 
deficits with critical emphases on the contributions of the National 
Youth Service Corps Scheme. That is, what and how the NYSC have 
been doing to resolve or bridging those deficits in the society for a long 
time now. 
 
The State of Education Sector in Nigeria 
The education sector in Nigeria has evolved through several stages of 
development to the current level. It started from non-formal learning 
where children were taught moral instructions, ethical behaviours, and 
domestic roles for male and female folks, semi-formal apprenticeship 
scheme in indigenous crafts like blacksmithing, weaving, textile 
making, pottery making, wood carving, dying of clothes, herbal 
medicine practice, among others. This actually corresponded with the 
traditional form of education that is highly influenced by the culture 
and environment of the people.2 
The Islamic education in Nigeria could be trace to pre-colonial period. 
By the fifteen century the ruling Saifawa dynasty of Kanem-Bornu 
Empire was the first to accept Islam, and followed by Hausa states. The 
jihad led by Othman Dan Fodio had fought and taken over most of the 
far North while the Sokoto Caliphate was established in the first half on 
the 19th century. The Islamic education spread around the Muslim 
areas quickly with the religion. The main aim of Islamic education is 
impartation of the knowledge of Islam and the molding of its culture on 
the life of Muslim children. 
                                                           2OPOnah “Indigenous Crafts in Igedeland, Central Nigeria 1922-2015: A Study of 
Continuity and Change” Ph.D. Dissertation University of Jos. 2019 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                             Onah P. Otumala 
44 
 
The second vital aspects of the education sector in Nigeria is the 
western formal education which product is basically proficiency in 
numeracy, literacy, critical thinking, communication ability, technical 
skills towards empowering individuals to put food on their table and 
building  economies.3It implies that western formal education prepare 
people for wage economies in the modernising sectors. This has being 
the dominant factor propelling and influencing education in Nigeria 
since the colonial periods. It is a force behind most educational 
planning and objectives currently. This explains why science is 
emphasized over humanities by all education stakeholders and policy 
planners in the country.4This perception or view of education is 
actually narrow and tend to create huge problems and crisis of 
development in the sector itself, and consequently on all other sectors. 
Furthermore, there is a leadership challenge in the country, lacking 
those who could innovate and pilot visionary quality policies linked to 
local developmental needs of the country. This is because the leaders 
and stakeholders in the sector were products of the same system. This 
occasioned the high premium on the paper qualification (certificates) 
rather than the practical performance or display of skills.5 Indeed, it is 
very clear that poor political leadership stagnate the progress of the 
education sector and the entire system in Nigeria. 
 
Knowledge Deficit in Education Sector in Nigeria 
There are numerous areas and issues that education in Nigeria is yet to 
contend with till present times. Such areas were inadequately handled 
while others are under pretentions. Generally, western education fails 
to respond and align appropriately to the yearnings and needs of the 
                                                           3T. Falola“ Education for Self-Employment” O E Tangban and CCC Osakwe (Eds) 
perspectives in African Historical Studies: Essays in Honour of Professor 
ChineduNwaforUbah.   Nigerian Defence Academy Kaduna 2013. 656 4See National policy on Education 5The same issue of qualification caused the fraud in certificate forging, 
impersonation, and others. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Knowledge Deficit in Nigerian Education and NYSC Scheme: 
45 
 
Nigerian people even from its inception over a century ago. It could not 
really agree with the indigenous form of education of the Nigerian 
people particularly the functionality perspectives.6The results from this 
situation and many other inadequacies of education are spelt out here. 
Technology-based education is one critical area of education that our 
education needed intervention urgently. From the colonial education 
and post-independent policies and attempts to introduce technological 
and vocational training into the sector has never achieve much result in 
helping Nigerian youth to acquire practical expertise required to 
function properly in the society. The school curriculum in Nigeria for 
several decades have over-emphasized certificates and its marriage 
with white collar jobs only. What the content of the education 
curriculum is supposed to contain have been left for the informal sector 
of our society. They include technical skills in electricity, electrical 
works, auto mechanical works, shoe production, photography, ICT 
skills, fashion designing, welding and fabrication, furniture works etc. 
There were several occasions where local and foreign companies 
operating in Nigeria would hire foreigners to carry out those highly 
paid jobs in the country particularly in the oil and gas 
sector.7Undeniably, those employment opportunities are in shortage 
and lacking thereby unemployed and underemployed youths are 
becoming social menace everywhere in the country.  
 
In the education sector too the number and quality of Technical 
Secondary schools where vocational and technical skills are taught to 
learners at early age have reduced significantly in the last forty years. 
In the 1980s most states of Nigeria had between 3-6 technical colleges 
apart from the Federal own. Most of those schools have been closed 
down out rightly or intentionally starved of funding till extinction.  
                                                           6See BT Bingel ”Traditional Education in Beromland” CC Jacobs (ed.) Studies of 
Berom in History and Culture Volume 1. Jos, BHP 1995. 157 7SanusiAbdulraseed 55+, Director, Corps Welfare and Health matters, NYSC 
Headquarters Abuja. Interviewed on  20/02/2021 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                             Onah P. Otumala 
46 
 
In addition the emergence of the profit-driven private schools in the 
country did not help but worsen the matter. The proprietors who 
invest in the education sector massively in recent times never see value 
in investing their resources in the technical and vocational type of 
education. At least in the seventies and eighties, there were some 
private owned technical and vocational institutions which have become 
unpopular now. Therefore, while this kind of education was dying and 
disappearing from the scene, normal secondary schools were 
expanding geometrically. The society had actually viewed technical 
training with disdain both at secondary and tertiary levels of education 
for long to an extent that made private investors to scare away from it 
for fear of low patronage. This scenario is epitomized by the number of 
applicants seeking admissions into Polytechnics vis-a-vis universities, 
as well as their job placement in salary earning domain/environment 
like the civil service. This still re-emphasize the fact of poor orientation 
which is basically on salary earning. A product of the polytechnics 
should be oriented on setting up an enterprise than going to earn 
salary.We must be receptive to changes, reshape our education 
towards a new mindset, acquire new knowledge and apply such to 
decision making.8 
 
Another deficit in education is the entrepreneurship skills and 
innovation kind of education. From the colonial period till the present 
times the curriculum and its implementation was not enough towards 
the training of entrepreneurial skills. Just like the technical schools 
discussed above, business schools are gradually disappearing from the 
scene. The same factors that affected technical education also caused 
the down turn of business education in the country. Undeniably from 
1960s to early 1990s was a golden era when Nigerian education was on 
a right track but the long years of military rule brought on board 
people/leaders whose interest was to kill the sector for personal gains. 
                                                           8T.Falola  “ Education for Self-Employment” 657 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Knowledge Deficit in Nigerian Education and NYSC Scheme: 
47 
 
Therefore, we have a National Business and Technical Examinations 
Board (NABTEB) located in Benin Edo state to coordinate the activities 
and examinations of all schools at this level leading to the award of 
crafts certificates. It is really unfortunate that youths rushed through 
schools up to tertiary level and are out to ride “Okada” but from the 
onset would have passed through the technical and business training to 
become permanently employed, self-reliant and be employer of 
labour.9 
 
The system to create functional education in Nigeria was supposed to 
start from home where parents and early childhood teachers would 
detect and discover the potentials of their wards and guide them 
towards achieving such endowments. The inadequacies of the 
education sector created the hatred of western education by the people 
of Southeastern Nigeria. The Igbo generally developed a perception and 
hatred that western education is not capable of providing enough 
income quickly and timely to meet up with their needs and social 
necessity and responsibility of men. Therefore, boys and young men in 
this part of Nigeria preferred early training in skills, trade and general 
merchandise through apprenticeship scheme system. In this system the 
young boy served the master for a specified period while the latter pay 
with training, tools, or goods during the graduation.10 They espouse the 
legacy of traditional education which is built on the functionality of 
educational attainment over other values of it. This is really not 
appropriate for our national development as other values of education 
like communication, critical thinking, literacy, numeracy, decision 
making, are lagging behind. It has also created female educationally 
dominated society and had affected quality leadership and maximum 
contribution to Nigerian development.  
 
                                                           9See T. Falola  “Education for Self-Employment” 658 10KelechiOsuafor 42+, Spare part dealer, Interviewed in Masaka, Karu LGA 
Nasarawa State on 20/02/2021 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                             Onah P. Otumala 
48 
 
In correlation to this, female gender issues and challenges in education 
sector particularly in the core North is enormous. The girl child, in 
some cases, is left uneducated with the cultural myopic conception that 
she would be married out of the family with the potential benefit of the 
certificate. This misconception is totally disastrous not only to the girl 
child or female folk but the entire society. Now the repercussion of this 
wrong notion of ignorance is hitting the north and entire Nigeria. There 
are two obvious examples: The early teenage marriage has become 
phenomenon with its attendant prevalence of Vesicovaginal Fistula 
(VVF) and death is common to only the region.11 The second result is 
that the ignorant girls have become very useful tools in the hands of the 
Boko Haram terrorists as best bomb carriers hidden within the hijab 
and excellent detonators in public places with heavy casualties. The 
educational deficit is the greatest currently in the country. The poverty 
index release by the NBS show this clearly with core North ranking top 
of the ladder, diseases, childbirth mortality, VVF, polio, hunger etc. 
Their higher indices go in line with the rate of illiteracy in the 
country.12 Indeed when you educate a woman, you educate a nation 
have being a popular slogan. 
 
In relation to the above, the need to reduce the number of Out-of-
School children particularly in the northern states of Nigeria must be 
emphasized here. Total privatization of education was carried out by 
past leaders who had no value for education. The cost of education 
shifted to the learner: The affordability of quality education today is 
quite challenging. It depends on the cost; it is selective depending on 
several factors: family background, immediate environment, and social 
status of the learner. 
 
                                                           11Vesico-viginal Festula:80,000 Nigerian women suffer annually 
www.bougenmagazine.com. Accessed on 13/03/2021 12Poverty index National Bureau for Statisticswww.Statisca.com published Sept.4, 
2020 accessed 13/03/2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Knowledge Deficit in Nigerian Education and NYSC Scheme: 
49 
 
In 2010, the government of President Goodluck Jonathan came up with 
the Almajiri schools in the north not only to boost enrolment but also 
as a panacea for ameliorating the burning issue of insecurity in the 
country. The programme was launched and some structures erected in 
some states for the kick-off. This programme was very laudable and 
commendable for Nigerian educational development. It was not 
received and accepted with joy by the northern elites who were gaining 
from the reservoir of stack illiterate children and youth as potential 
terrorists, kidnappers, bandits,  killer-herdsmen and all forms of 
criminality ravaging the country. It died naturally after that 
government left office. In 2019-2020 when the former Emir of Kano, 
Sanusi Lamido was vocal in this matter of educating the Almajiri and 
other less privileged children in region, he was ousted from power by 
the northern power system.  Today nothing is heard about the Almajiri 
education any longer. It is like dragging the horse to the river to drink 
water while it is pulling the owner back. 
 
Lack of morality and value oriented educational system: The twenty-
nine year military era of Ironsi to Abdulsalam swept most excellent 
schools built on moral foundation by the Christian missions across 
Nigeria. This was carried out under the subterfuge of state 
governments taken over the ownership and management of these 
schools. After the takeover of those schools, they changed their names 
in line with wishes of governors of the states concerned. This was done 
without utmost faith and sincerity of purpose to develop the schools. 
Most of the schools were not adequately funded and teachers were not 
paid well thereby reducing their standard over time. Indeed, from the 
1990s when private profit became the motive driving investment in the 
educational sector moral and value had already been sacrificed for 
money. In some private schools presently, parents pay teachers and 
school authorities to allow their children indulge in examination 
malpractices. The only exception could be some few schools owned by 
faith-based organizations (Christianity and Islam) in the country. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                             Onah P. Otumala 
50 
 
Finally, the near absence of teacher training institutions in the country 
had contributed to the denigration of the teaching profession. It started 
with the abolishing of such institutions specially designed and 
mandated to train teachers. There is an undeniable gap of grade II 
training between the GCE and NCE/B.Ed. Teaching is a craft like other 
professions which needed special nurture and care for good reward or 
wages. The teachers whose early education were in conventional 
secondary schools before attaining NCE/B.Ed. in tertiary education 
could be compared to a building with faulty foundation and good 
roofing. The building will not stand the test of time. 
 
The Role of NYSC in Bridging the Educational Gaps in Nigeria 
The establishment of the National Youth Service Corps by General 
Gowon was very crucial not only for the enhancement of the 
integration of the diverse entities that made up the country but it has 
become the scheme to complement existing lapses, inadequacies and 
gaps. A brief history of the scheme and the different panacea it has 
provided in the education sector are captured here. 
One of the outstanding negative impacts of the British colonial rule in 
Nigeria is not only that it failed to build a united nation-state, but it 
really created strong pillars of divisions and resentment amongst the 
diverse ethno-religious and cultural groups that made up the country. 
This was achieved through different colonial strategies of divide and 
rule, imposition of some groups against others, withholding education 
from the core Muslim north, regional autonomy without cohesive 
approach to governance among others. Even when it was obvious that 
such religious, ethnic and regional interests were demonstrating 
towards the end of the colonial rule in the 1950s with huge agitation 
from the minority groups, the colonial authorities left the imminent 
crisis and handed over political independence to the Nigerian elites. 
Shortly after the independence the political situations of the First 
Republic characterized by unhealthy rivalries by the regional leaders 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Knowledge Deficit in Nigerian Education and NYSC Scheme: 
51 
 
and the nature of politics expanded the scope of ill-feeling and widened 
the gap of disunity in the country. Undeniably the invitation given to 
the military by the political elites resulted in the two bloody military 
coups and the Nigerian Civil War left a social wound on the attempt to 
build a united country. It further aggravated the discord and doubt 
among the major ethnic groups in the country.13 It was this progression 
of building a strong and united country out of people of diverse 
background that the NYSC was established by General Yakubu Gowon 
by Decree Number 24 of 22ndMay, 1973. The scheme has performed the 
role of filling the inadequacies of the education sector discussed above 
through its numerous programmes and projects since inception. 
First, prior to the introduction of Skill Acquisition Entrepreneurship 
Development (SAED) programmes in 2012, there were the Community 
Development Services (CDS) that were oriented towards the training of 
Corps members on skills for self-reliance. Some of such areas include 
farming, fishing, animal husbandry, shoe making, garri processing, 
cloth weaving, fabrication of machines and other devices.14 For this 
purpose among others, the scheme established centers; factories and 
production sites for practical training in several states of the country 
(see the table below). One cardinal objective of the CDS was to transfer 
basic skills to the youths. Thus  
…to provide a forum for training youths in the 
leadership of development initiatives. The process of 
conceiving and implementing a project involves a long 
sequence of activities, demanding various level of 
decision-making. .. Corps members formally acquire 
practical training in leadership and management. 
                                                           13GO Odeh “Demilitarizing and Democratizing the Appointment of NYSC Director 
General: Forging Civil-Military Relations” CCC Osakwe et al (eds.) War, Society and 
Leadership in Nigeria: Essays in Honour of Brigadier General Shaibu Ibrahim.  
Nigeria Defence Academy Kaduna, 2020 23-24 14G. Enegwea and G.Umoden, NYSC: Twenty Yearsof National Service.Lagos, 
Gabumo .1993 59-63 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                             Onah P. Otumala 
52 
 
Participation in Community Development activities 
thus assists the Corps members in developing their 
individual leadership talents and encourages them not 
to shy away from responsibility.15 
Furthermore, there was a special collaboration of the NYSC/Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) War Against Poverty (WAP) initiative 
which commenced in 2009. The main target of this collaborated project 
was to eradicate extreme poverty and hunger, empower Corps 
members to be self-employed entrepreneurs, enable women with skills 
for self-reliance and improve rural production and wealth creation. 
16The youths were well-equipped with training and practical skills in 
agriculture business including snail farming, bee keeping, fish farming, 
animal husbandry, grass cutter farming, plantain/banana sucker 
multiplication and poultry farming. It was an actual business started 
with training, good business plan, memorandum of understanding 
(MOU), and a loan of between N150,000 – N250,000 with zero interest 
rate repayable in 30 months. 2,820 beneficiares successfully accessed 
the fund.17 The hallmark of this collaboration was the facilitation of 
attendance of advanced entrepreneurial training by seven (7) WAP 
entrepreneurs at Barry University, Maimi, Florida, USA. The Corps 
entrepreneurs were advanced loans of between N1.8m and N3.0m by 
National Economic Reconstruction Funds to expand their entreprises in 
order to employ more community members. The outstanding achievers 
include Gunn Ewhoborwho, Ogumade Gbenga Akin, Mary Ofojetu, 
Aborisade Adetola A, and Edunjobi Sunday18 
 
                                                           15  G. Enegwea and G. Umoden, NYSC: Twenty Years.63. 16National Youth Service Corps Year Book:40th Anniversary Commemorative Edition 
2013. 56 17This amount was reviewed upward to #200,000 -#300,000 in 2012. See National 
Youth Service Corps Year Book. 59 18National Youth Service Corps Year Book.59-61. There were many outstanding 
youths businesses from the programme.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Knowledge Deficit in Nigerian Education and NYSC Scheme: 
53 
 
One critical attainment of the NYSC/MDGs WAP programme is the 
replicative and massive multiplier effects it generated on the Nigerian 
rural employment and food production in the country. This emanates 
from the fact that it is regenerative plan where the Corps beneficiaries 
were able to train people massively in their various places of primary 
assignment and communities where their enterprises are based after 
the service year. In most cases, they were expected to train at least five 
youths in the host communities and embrace the Corps CDS into their 
farm premises for impacting skills on them. Undeniably most of the 
early beneficiaries surpassed this expectation. For instance, Gunn 
Ewhoborwho, whose agro-business was poultry farming located in 
Beyalsa State was able to train 45 youths within few years, and later 
expanded to a level that was recognized with an award from the state 
government, and was recently made the state chairman of Poultry 
Farmers Association.19 
 
In 2012, given the high dearth and shortage of white collar job 
opportunities in the country, the federal government introduced and 
directed the scheme to establish Skill Acquisition Entrepreneurship 
Development (SAED) programmes to resolve the issues of 
unemployment in the country. These issues were the inadequacies and 
shortfalls of the western education curriculum. The SAED department 
was mandated to prepare the youths on the job situation and engage 
them on core foundation for entrepreneurship and practical skills for 
self-reliance and employer of labour. 
The SAED programme targets young graduates of tertiary institutions 
in Nigeria who have limited chances of getting employed after 
graduation for a basic reason. Educational training oriented towards 
only dependent on salary collecting jobs lacked the capacity for 
employment creation; that is, technology and entrepreneurship.20The 
                                                           19National Youth Service Corps Year Book.59-60 20See T. Falola  “Education for Self-Employment” 658 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                             Onah P. Otumala 
54 
 
programme focuses on empowering them with entrepreneurial skills 
and building their capacities in the twelve (12) key areas including 
Fashion, Agriculture, ICT Education, Power & Energy, Automobiles, 
Film & Photography, Cosmetology, Food Processing/Preservation, 
Agro-allied, and much more that would transform these young 
graduates into sustainable change agents worldwide. The NYSC Ondo 
State Coordinator, Mrs. Victoria Nnenna Ani: 
All the business skills we are engaged in are promising 
but with your diligence and commitment to the training 
schedule both here in camp and during the service 
year, they would turn out to be profitable. She 
reminded the members of the service Corps that not 
everyone is born with silver spoon in their mouth and 
as such those from the humble background should 
remember the children of whom they are and venture 
into skills or vocations that will make them 
economically independent. 21 
 
The SAED programme also created a platform that will facilitate access 
of young people to requisite skills and resources necessary for 
successful entrepreneurship as a means of job creation, improving food 
security and enhancing national development. The programme planned 
for the development of a culture of self-reliance among our youth by 
equipping them with the necessary skills for sustainable job creation 
towards national development.22 The practical training started from 
the 3 weeks orientation camp where professionals in those areas are 
contracted by the scheme to give Corps members hands-on training in 
                                                           21https://www.vanguardngr.com/2021/03/how-leveraging-
on-nysc-can-create-wealth-for-nigerian-graduates-
ani/accessed 21/3/2021. 22 “SAED” http://nysclagos.com/saed.php retrieved 28/09/2017. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Knowledge Deficit in Nigerian Education and NYSC Scheme: 
55 
 
different skills and entrepreneurship.23 In addition, NYSC had 
collaborations with many agencies including the Central Bank of 
Nigeria (CBN), Bank of Industry (BOI), among others that provide the 
start-up capital in form of loans with low interest rates to the Corps 
members willing to further the acquired career.   
For instance, the garment factories set up to assist the scheme in 
producing uniforms in large quantities used by Corps members for the 
one year national service had provided platform for them to be trained 
in the factories. As a result, some of these Corps members become 
professionals in the act of tailoring and designing as they further 
pursue the career.24 The NYSC bakery and the NYSC water factory were 
added to the ventures and served as an avenue for Corps members to 
learn from the businesses that are run in the ventures. They engage in 
learning in the areas of production, manufacturing, marketing and 
general entrepreneurship.25 Indeed, what the school curriculum failed 
to provide has been given to the Corps members from the camp to the 
post-service year with less cost in terms of time and resources. 
Table 3.1: Examples of NYSC Enterprises/ training centers and 
their locations in Nigeria  
S/N Production/training center Location 
1 Shoe-making factory Benin, Edo State 
2 Fish ponds Ogun state  
3 NYSC maize storage factory Ogun state 
4 NYSC Oil palm plantation Iwok, AkwaIbom 
5 NYSC Rice farm Niger state 
                                                           23Starting my own small business participant’s Workbook. Department of NYSC 
Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development. ii 24 G. Enegwea and G. Umoden, NYSC… 165 25Musa Ibrahim Abdu, 47, NYSC Official (Zonal Coordinator, Katsina), NYSC Zonal 
Office Funtua, 10thMarch, 2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                             Onah P. Otumala 
56 
 
6 NYSC community-based Health 
centre 
Calabar 
7 NYSC Garment factory Mgbakwu, Anambra State 
8 NYSC Garment factory Minna Niger state 
9 NYSC bakery  Kubwa, FCT 
10 NYSC water factory Kubwa, FCT 
 
The NYSC scheme has also become a solution provider to knowledge 
gaps created by the curriculum in numerous ways, touching lives at 
grassroots level through education development groups. These 
includes: mass literacy, adult education, that enhance the education 
standard of host community, career guidance and counselling for 
students, campaign against illiteracy-girl-child education, extra-moral 
class for adults, organizing of in-school program, promotion of culture 
and tourism. All these are carried out by the different CDS groups of the 
scheme.  
For instance, the Students of Government Girls Secondary School 
Kakuri Kaduna were part of a sensitization program by Corps 
members’ on the importance of the Girl-Child Education. The girl–child 
is a biological female offspring from birth to eighteen (18) years of 
age.26 This is the age before one becomes a young adult. During this 
period the child is capable of being shaped, built and developed to the 
desirable personality and character that is generally acceptable in the 
society. The child would have the knowledge that is generally 
acceptable in the process of providing information to an inexperienced 
person to help him or her develop physically, mentally, socially, 
emotionally, spiritually, politically and economically. It is a process 
through which individuals are made functional members of their 
                                                           26Prosherang Intelligent Investing, The value of GIRL-Child education in Nigeria, 
Retrieved 19th February, 2021 https://www.proshareng.com/news/Education-
Knowledge/The-Value-of-Girl-Child-Education-in-Nig 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Knowledge Deficit in Nigerian Education and NYSC Scheme: 
57 
 
society. Through the various engagements and programmes, NYSC have 
been able to educate (means to train the mind, character and abilities 
of individuals) people in the society, particularly the girl child to 
become valuable.   
The Corps members have greatly affected the aspect of 
entrepreneurship among host communities. Entrepreneurship is 
complicated and multidisciplinary with roots in economics, 
psychological, sociology, skill acquisition and management. It is the 
bedrock of development aspiration of most developed nations. The 
Scheme is aimed at uniting and improving skills of the youths. The 
Corps members use the knowledge gained from NYSC Skills Acquisition 
and Entrepreneur Development to improve the life of their host 
communities through awareness and sensitization on skills acquisition 
and the reality that only about 10% of the Nigerian workforce has a 
wage, around 38%work in agriculture and 52% are self-employed. 
However, in the current situation of the country, one cannot depend on 
livelihood from experience gained within the four corners of the school 
classroom. There is need to acquire skill in entrepreneurship, business 
innovations as part of active means and source of living. The students 
were engaged in skill acquisition training in different aspects of 
entrepreneurship which includes; production of liquid soap, shoes, 
bags, beads making, catering services etc, as a dependable means of 
earning a living and productivity, NYSC is contributing to the growth 
and development of the country thereby filling the lapses of Nigerian 
education system in the society. 
Agriculture is another important sector of NYSC. The Agro allied of the 
NYSC CDS group established different agricultural ventures and farm 
house equipped with modern implements to promote better food 
production and security. Corp members train themselves and their host 
communities in new farming techniques in many areas like pig keeping, 
poultry farming, snail, palm plantations, cashew and orange orchards. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                             Onah P. Otumala 
58 
 
In terms the general shortage of teachers in the country, NYSC has 
provided the best teaching manpower required in the educational 
sector in Nigeria. In the rural areas where there is a huge gap of 
teaching staff in secondary and primary schools, Corps members have 
offered their services. 
Conclusion 
The issue of knowledge deficit has been a major dilemma begging for 
needful intervention over the years. The establishment of NYSC in 1973 
and the institution of one of its major cardinal programmes which is 
the community development service in 1982 have tried to cover these 
areas by extending its resourcefulness on the area of education and 
also closing the gaps of knowledge deficit in the country. This paper 
traces the state of education sector in Nigeria. The paper also examined 
the nature of knowledge deficit in the country and mechanisms put in 
place to reduce the impact of knowledge deficit in the country. This 
study found out that the NYSC through its SAED and other educational 
programmes has been able to make positive impact on the nation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Knowledge Deficit in Nigerian Education and NYSC Scheme: 
59 
 
Bibliography 
 
 “SAED” http://nysclagos.com/saed.php retrieved 28/09/2017. 
Enegwea G and Umoden G, NYSC: Twenty Yearsof National 
Service.Lagos, Gabumo.1993 59-63 
Eyisi, J. “Education as Bedrock for Nigerian Development” J. Eyisi et.al 
(eds.) Education Across the Curriculum: In Honour of Emeritus 
Professor Thomas KolawoleAdeyanju 
Falola T.“ Education for Self-Employment” O E Tangban and CCC 
Osakwe (Eds) perspectives in African Historical Studies: Essays in 
Honour of Professor ChineduNwaforUbah.   Nigerian Defence 
Academy Kaduna 2013. 656 
https://www.vanguardngr.com/2021/03/how-
leveraging-on-nysc-can-create-wealth-for-
nigerian-graduates-ani/accessed 21/3/2021 
Kelechi Osuafor 42+, Spare part dealer, Interviewed in Masaka, Karu 
LGA Nasarawa State on 20/02/2021 
Musa Ibrahim Abdu, 47, NYSC Official (Zonal Coordinator, Katsina), 
NYSC Zonal Office Funtua, 10thMarch, 2021. 
National Youth Service Corps Year Book.59-60 
National Youth Service Corps Year Book.59-61. There were many 
outstanding youths businesses from the programme.  
National Youth Service Corps Year Book:40th Anniversary 
Commemorative Edition 2013. 56 
Obanya, P.A, Education: The Answer to All Societal Problems. 4 
Odeh G.O. “Demilitarizing and Democratizing the Appointment of NYSC 
Director General: Forging Civil-Military Relations” CCC Osakwe 
et al (eds.) War, Society and Leadership in Nigeria: Essays in 
Honour of Brigadier General Shaibu Ibrahim.  Nigeria Defence 
Academy Kaduna, 2020 23-24 
OPOnah “Indigenous Crafts in Igedeland, Central Nigeria 1922-2015: A 
Study of Continuity and Change” Ph.D. Dissertation University 
of Jos. 2019 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                             Onah P. Otumala 
60 
 
Poverty index National Bureau for Statistics www.Statisca.com 
published Sept.4, 2020 accessed 13/03/2021. 
Prosherang Intelligent Investing, The value of GIRL-Child education in 
Nigeria, Retrieved 19 th February, 2021 
https://www.proshareng.com/news/Education-
Knowledge/The-Value-of-Girl-Child-Education-in-Nig 
Sanusi Abdulraseed 55+, Director, Corps Welfare and Health matters, 
NYSC Headquarters Abuja. Interviewed on  20/02/2021 
See BT Bingel ”Traditional Education in Beromland” CC Jacobs (ed.) 
Studies of Berom in History and Culture Volume 1. Jos, BHP 1995. 
157 
See National policy on Education 
Starting my own small business participant’s Workbook. Department of 
NYSC Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development. ii 
The same issue of qualification caused the fraud in certificate forging, 
impersonation, and others. 
This amount was reviewed upward to #200,000 -#300,000 in 2012. 
See National Youth Service Corps Year Book. 59 
Vesico-viginal Festula:80,000 Nigerian women suffer annually 
www.bougenmagazine.com. Accessed on 13/03/2021 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Knowledge on Community Development Service and its Impact... 
61 
 
 44 44    
    Knowledge on Community Development Service and 
its Impact on National Development 
 
 
Ayodele Christian 
 
 
Introduction 
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) scheme was created in a bid 
to reconstruct, reconcile and rebuild the economy after the Nigerian 
Civil War with a view to proper encouragement and development of 
common ties among the youths of Nigeria and the promotion of 
National Unity. It was introduced by the military administration of 
General Yakubu Gowon in 1973 who was the then military head of state 
as part of his “Three R” post civil war policy of Re-construction, Re-
habilitation, and Re-integration specifically to unite the country’s 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                   Ayodele Christian 
62 
 
different regions, in order to promote peace, love and tolerance among 
the various ethnic groups after a devastating civil war that threaten the 
unity of the country by almost dividing the country into two different 
sovereign states.  
The scheme encourage the posting of graduates to a different region or 
state than theirs after undergoing para-military training orientation for 
a mandatory/compulsory one year service to their host communities in 
different fields before obtaining a Certificate of National Service which 
became the only key for every tertiary institution graduate to secure a 
job, most especially HND and Degree holders all over the country. The 
scheme’s mandate is to raise a class of patriotic, morally and physically 
disciplined Nigerian youths. Throughout the duration of the program, 
corps members live among and within their host communities 
facilitating unity, integration and represent a group in one of the 
Community Development Service (CDS) together with the people to 
execute a project for the development of the community1 . 
It is compulsory for the corps members to belong to a Community 
Development Service (CDS) group. The Community Development 
Service (CDS) is a component of NYSC through which the Service Corps 
Members work with the local communities to promote self-reliance by 
systematically prospecting and executing development projects and 
programmes which impact positively on the socio-economic 
development of the host communities. This paper examines 
contributions of Community Development Service (CDS) to national 
integration and their relevance to community development, and also 
the impact of NYSC CDS on national integration.  
The study adopted descriptive and analytical framework to arrive at 
conclusion that NYSC does not only empower the youths as one of its 
objectives, but has also been impacting in the socio-economic 
                                                           1“ABC” of Community Development Service” NYSC, NDHQ Abuja, October 2014. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Knowledge on Community Development Service and its Impact... 
63 
 
development of various communities through its CDS component 
thereby bringing about integration. Thus, the study maintained that 
CDS programme of NYSC is highly relevant in community development 
and national integrations. The study therefore recommends that 
Nigerian government and NYSC officials should retain and empower 
the component and also device more ways of encouraging Service 
Corps Members to engage in more CDS projects. 
The scheme’s mandate is to raise a class of patriotic, morally and 
physically disciplined Nigerian youths. Throughout the duration of the 
program, corps members live among and within their host 
communities facilitating unity, integration and represent a group in one 
of the Community Development Service (CDS) together with the people 
to execute a project for the development of the community2.  
It is worthy of note, from its inception in 1973, the National Youth 
Service Corps has contributed immensely in the social, political and 
economic transformation of the nation. In recent times, the scheme has 
being in the vanguard of the nation's drive to correct the imbalance in 
our rural-urban development through the various community 
development programs executed by corps members. These programs 
have revolutionized our communities in the areas of education, health 
care delivery, agriculture, communication, infrastructure, technology, 
economic empowerment, poverty eradication, social services and 
above all national consciousness and socio-cultural regeneration3 . 
 
 
 
                                                           2 O. Adedayo, Nigeria: NYSC - Trudging On, 37 Years After. Daily Independent, 18 
July, 2010 3 Chiagozie (April 9th, 2012). “NYSC Corps Member Builds 40 Bed Hostel in Niger 
School”. Accessed from Information Nigeria: 
http://www.informationng.com/2012/04/nysc-member-builds-40-bedhostel-in-
niger-school.html 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                   Ayodele Christian 
64 
 
Idea behind NYSC CDS (Objectives) 
As one of the cardinal programs of the NYSC, Community Development 
Service was envisaged among other benefits to: 
1. Impact and improve positively on the rural community life. 
2. Expose corps members to diverse traditions and customs of the 
host communities 
3. Provide a forum for corps members to experiment with ideas 
and translate them into concrete achievements thereby relying 
less on foreign technology and encouraging the use of local raw 
materials in the execution of projects as well as on-the-job 
training and experience for corps members. 
4. Harness the enormous talents and skills of corps members into 
an effective machinery of change in our rural communities. 
5. Develop the spirit of entrepreneurship in the corps members. 
6. Explore the challenges which rural development poses and 
inculcate in the Nigerian Youth the ideals and capacities for 
leadership, endurance, selflessness, community service, 
national service, patriotism and creativity. 
7. Instil in corps members the tradition of dignity of labour and 
productivity. 
8. Complement the activities of government at all levels in the 
stride towards national development. 
9. Providing complementary service in our National development 
activities, by ensuring that our under-privileged population 
learned basic techniques for self-help through the appropriate 
technology concept being promoted by NYSC4 . 
 
 
 
                                                           4“ABC” OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT SERVICE” NYSC, NDHQ Abuja, October 
2014. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Knowledge on Community Development Service and its Impact... 
65 
 
Categorization of CDS 
NYSC CDS is categorized into two main categories of: 
1. Group Community Development Service (Group CDS) 
2. Personal/Individual Community Development Service 
(Personal/Individual CDS) 
 
Group Community Development Service (Group CDS) 
Corps members are expected to use one day in a week for group CDS 
activities. They are not expected to attend duties in their places of 
Primary assignment on CDS days. Such days are dedicated to the 
execution of projects and programs that will improve the living 
conditions of their host communities. However, such days vary with 
different states across the federation. 
 
Various CDS Groups in NYSC Scheme and Functions 
 
Corps Legal Aid Scheme (CLAS) Group 
Purpose: 
• Provide free legal services to the less privileged and indigent 
prison inmates (Victims of denials and violation of rights) 
• Sensitized the public on fundamental human rights 
Activities: 
• Advocacy 
• Visit to Correctional Centres  
• Legal service to inmate and indigenes of host community 
• Public lecture and awareness on fundamental human rights 
 
SPORTS CDS Group 
Purpose: 
• Creates avenue for recreation and healthy rivalry among corps 
members and the community. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                   Ayodele Christian 
66 
 
• Arousing the consciousness of living healthy and purposeful 
lifestyles through participation in one form of physical activity 
or the other. 
• Identify talents among Corps members 
Activities: 
• Participation in Sports competitions 
•  Identifying and Training members of the Community 
•  Organizing Sports Competitions 
 
Environmental Protection & Sanitation Group (NEMA/NESREA 
vanguard) 
Purpose: 
• To promote and sustain healthy environment 
• To create awareness on sustainable environment, management 
and regeneration 
Functions: 
• Tree planting 
• Drainage Control 
• Erosion Control 
• Sanitation 
• Aforestation 
• Land Scaping 
 
Education Development Group (Mass Literacy, Adult Education, 
Extra Murals ICT) 
Purpose: 
• Enhance the Education Standard of the host community. 
• Career guidance and counseling for students 
Activities: 
• Campaign against Illiteracy 
• Organizing Extra-mural classes for Adults 
• Organizing of in-school programs 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Knowledge on Community Development Service and its Impact... 
67 
 
Cultural & Tourism CDS Group (Band, Dance, Drama & Tourism) 
Purpose: 
• Promoting arts and Culture 
• Dissemination of vital socio-economic and political problems 
and prospects 
Activities: 
• Identifying talents 
• Setting up of the schemes theatre groups 
 
Road Safety Club (RSC) CDS Group 
Purpose: 
• To contribute to public safety on our roads 
Activities: 
• Sensitization and control of traffic 
• Rendering first aid to accident victims 
• Establishment of road safety clubs in school. 
 
Editorial/Publicity CDS Group 
Purpose: 
• Compliment the activities of the NYSC PRO in disseminating 
Information to the Community 
Activities: 
• Making presentation on mass media to enlighten people on 
socio-cultural education 
 
Disaster Management Group (NEMA) 
Purpose: 
• To create awareness on disaster management 
• To disseminate information on how to manage disasters 
through Corps Emergency Vanguards 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                   Ayodele Christian 
68 
 
• Public enlightenment on disaster management and control 
through the emergency Vanguards 
• Liaison with NEMA on how to assist during emergencies 
• Formation of emergency vanguard club in schools 
 
Medical & Health Services CDS Group (Red Cross, Breast without 
Spot, Polio Plus etc.) 
Purpose: 
• Promotion and provision of Medical Services 
Activities: 
• Health outreach 
• First Aid administration 
• Establishment of Community based clinic 
• Setting up of clinic for the NYSC Secretariat 
 
Service Delivery CDS Group (Attitudinal Change, Re- Branding) 
Purpose: 
• Sensitization on Service delivery and good work ethics. 
Activities: 
• Training 
• Sensitization 
• Group discussions on value re-orientation 
 
Drug Free & Quality Control CDS Group (NDLEA, NAFDAC, SON) 
Purpose: 
• Eradication of fake and adulterated foods and drugs 
• Create awareness on danger of drug abuse 
• Campaign and Sensitization 
• Establishment of drug free clubs in Schools  
• Ensuring linkages with the host Communities 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Knowledge on Community Development Service and its Impact... 
69 
 
Charity Services & Gender Group 
Purpose: 
• To improve the living standard of the down trodden 
• Charity outreaches to the public 
• Mobilize funds and other resources for less privileged 
• Visits of orphanages & prisons 
• Donation of materials to homes 
 
Millenium Development Goals (MDGs) CDS Group 
Purpose: 
• To create awareness and actualize the 8 goals of MDGs 
Activities: 
• Advocacy and Mentoring of the host community 
 
Agro-Allied CDS Group 
Purpose: 
• Support agro allied activities in host communities 
• To promote better food production and security 
Activities: 
• Demonstration farms/Extension Services 
• Establishment of Farmers Cooperative Societies 
• Advocacy 
• Teaching of new farming techniques to communities 
 
Anti-Corruption CDS Group (EFCC & ICPC) 
Purpose: 
• To help in eradicating corruption through Campaign 
Activities 
• Sensitization 
• Creation of awareness in schools and organizations 
• Establish Anti Corruption Corps members in schools 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                   Ayodele Christian 
70 
 
Reproductive Health & HIV/AIDS Group 
Purpose: 
• To train and mentor Students 
• To mobilize and strengthen community based responses on 
HIV/AIDS prevention 
Activities: 
• Sensitization and Campaign5 
 
However, some of these groups might not be found in some states, 
reason being that two to three CDS group could be merged together if 
their functions are interchangeable. For example, Disaster Management 
CDS Group (NEMA vanguard) is related to Environmental Protection 
and Sanitation CDS Group (NESREA vanguard). Thus in a state like 
Ebonyi state, these two groups as well as other environmental allies are 
merged together to form a mega environmental CDS group. 
 
Needs Assessment of CDS Project/Programme NYSC  
Corps Members who wish to embark on projects are expected to 
observe the challenges faced by the benefiting community before 
engaging in that. Such challenges may include inadequate medical 
facilities, good water, educational institutions and many other social 
amenities or the need to educate the community on a particular 
menace, activity or issue. Other reasons may include the prevalence of 
nonskilled or unemployed youths, high rate of illiteracy or drug abuse, 
among others. Apart from observation, other ways of identifying these 
include discussions with the community members ranging from 
community leaders, youths, traders, community associations, etc. Such 
projects should therefore be expected to improve the socio-economic 
development of the benefiting community.6 
                                                           5“Abc” Of Community Development Service” NYSC, NDHQ Abuja, October 2014. 6 Media (June 25 th, 2014). “Francis Okoye – Extraordinary Corper Delivers 
2.5Million in CDS Projects during his 1 Year Service”. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Knowledge on Community Development Service and its Impact... 
71 
 
Funding and Execution of CDS Project/Programme 
Before a Corps Member executes a project or programme, he/she must 
have gotten an approval from the State Coordinator of the State he/she 
is serving through his Zonal Inspector and Local Government Inspector. 
This will only be granted if the Corps Member meets all the 
requirements and is ready to obey the laid down regulations. The 
management of NYSC has made it very clear that on no account should 
any Corps Member fund CDS project from his/her personal money as 
doing so would nullify the viability of the project7. Funding of CDS 
project therefore is a shared responsibility of the community, 
government and stakeholders who are beneficiaries of such projects. 
Funds for project execution should be sourced through corporate or 
Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs), philanthropists, government 
agencies, public spirited individuals in the community, political office 
holders or representatives, etc. There should be a comprehensive 
analysis of income and expenditure of funds and materials received 
with receipt attached for the purpose of accountability. Mobilization of 
resources should not be done in isolation but in conjunction with 
community members and other relevant stakeholders. Feedback is 
necessary for project sponsors8  .The execution proper can be done by 
either the Corps Member alone or in collaboration with either the 
sponsors agents or community members. Such projects will be 
commissioned by NYSC management before a Corps Member passed 
out.  
                                                                                                                                       
http//www.konknaijamedia.com/francis-okoyeextraordinary-corper-elivers-2-5-
million-in-cds-projects-during-his-1-year-service/ 7 Konk Naija Media (June 25 th, 2014). “Francis Okoye – Extraordinary Corper 
Delivers 2.5Million in CDS Projects during his 1 Year Service”. 
http//www.konknaijamedia.com/francis-okoyeextraordinary-corper-elivers-2-5-
million-in-cds-projects-during-his-1-year-service/ 8 Konk Naija Media (June 25 th, 2014). “Francis Okoye – Extraordinary Corper 
Delivers 2.5Million in CDS Projects during his 1 Year Service”. 
http//www.konknaijamedia.com/francis-okoyeextraordinary-corper-elivers-2-5-
million-in-cds-projects-during-his-1-year-service/ 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                   Ayodele Christian 
72 
 
Relevance of NYSC-CDS to Community Development  
Projects and programmes initiated, developed or executed by Corps 
Members has resulted in socioeconomic development in various 
communities through establishment of schools, building of libraries, 
construction of water projects, public toilets, power sources, etc. 
Sensitizations, campaigns and public enlightenments were undertaken 
in various communities on issues like corruption, road safety, health 
safety, environmental hazards, management techniques, 
entrepreneurial skills, etc. The youth Corps Members have with the 
trainings, seminars and workshops they had in and outside camp, been 
equipped with the mental and academic capacity to sensitize, inform, 
educate and execute projects and programmes to other Nigerians in 
their community of service. Amos (observed that with the CDS projects 
like EFCC and ICPC through which Corps Members carry out 
sensitization workshops, Nigerians are made better aware of the evils 
of corruption and can fight it to a grand halt9 .  
Through this approach, Corps Members stem corruption by identifying 
its dangers before taking the fight to the society. In the aspect of 
community help, Abdulazeez testified that Corps Members attached to 
NYSC Road Safety Group of Kwara State does public enlightenments in 
motor parks, traffic control exercises at selected junctions, visits to 
traffic victims in hospitals, etc10. By way of promoting culture and 
tourism activities, Ajayi testified that the Culture and Tourism CDS 
Group of NYSC Kwara State had in 2015 executed a cultural programme 
                                                           9 Amos, V. (September 3rd, 2015). “Role of the National Youth Service Corps on 
National Development”. Accessed from The Ink Newspaper Online: 
http://theinknewspaper.blogspot.co.ke./2015/09/role-of-national-youth-service-
corps.html?m=1 10 Abdulazeez, S.T. (2016). “Importance of National Youth Service”.Kwara Kopa 
Magazine. 2015 Batch A. NYSC Kwara: Press and Public Relations Unit. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Knowledge on Community Development Service and its Impact... 
73 
 
titled “Clean the Polluted Land” which had in attendance various 
community leaders, Corps Members and NYSC officials11.  
In the act of giving back to the society, a Corps Member, Mr. Aladefa 
Moradeyo with state code number KW/15A/1626 donated a set of 
school uniforms to 100 pupils of Gaa Ayelabaowo Primary School, Oko-
olowo, Ilorin, Kwara State on 7th March, 2016 (Kwara Kopa Magazine, 
2016)12. Konk Naija Media reported that Francis Okoye with state code 
number KW/12B/0069 delivers 2.5million Naira in CDS projects in 
Offa, Kwara State on the construction of a borehole and a billboard, 
donated 2000 writing materials to six primary schools, one hundred 
treated mosquito nets to 100 families, one hundred pairs of school 
sandals to five selected primary schools, one hundred West African 
Examination Council (WAEC) recommended novels (Blind Trust) and 
one hundred pens to one hundred13. 
SS1 students, organised quiz competition, train less privileged on 
entrepreneurial skills including baking of cakes, chin-chin, egg roll, 
among others. Sir-Kenayo (2016) observed that Corps Members at Ota, 
Ogun State embarked on a sensitization and cleaning exercise titled 
“Operation Keep Ota Clean” in collaboration with Ogun State 
Environmental Protection Agency on the need of keeping environment 
clean. The exercise experienced a good turn-out with Corps Members 
picking all the dirt and keeping drainages clean. The topic they 
sensitized people on were; Global Warming; Effect of Illegal Dumping of 
Refuse; Air and Water Pollution; Health and Hygiene; and Recycling of 
                                                           11 Abdulazeez, S.T. (2016). “Importance of National Youth Service”…. 12 Abdulazeez, S.T. (2016). “Importance of National Youth Service”… 13 Konk Naija Media (June 25 th, 2014). “Francis Okoye – Extraordinary Corper 
Delivers 2.5Million in CDS Projects during his 1 Year Service”. 
http//www.konknaijamedia.com/francis-okoyeextraordinary-corper-elivers-2-5-
million-in-cds-projects-during-his-1-year-service 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                   Ayodele Christian 
74 
 
Waste14. Adeniji Amos Oluwagbenga with state code number 
EK/14B/2540 was reported to have distributed 5,000 exercise books 
to students of Baptist High School, Amoye Grammar School, AUD 
Primary School and St.  
Louis Secondary School on 12th May, 22nd May, 26th May and 10th 
June, 2015 respectively, at Ikere-Ekiti, Ekiti State (Dowex, 2015). The 
Nation gathered on 18th March, 2016 that Okeke Stanley, Corps 
Member, built a bore hole and a well-stocked library at the Community 
Secondary school, Nkomoro, Ezza North, Ebonyi State. Vanguard, on 
28th June, 2012 captured the efforts of four Corps Members – Otto 
Oronom Harmony, Oyelaja Olusola Olayenu, Emuveyan Tejiri and 
Amaeze Ugochukwu who served Lagos State in 2011/2012. Otto 
donated hundreds of mosquito nets to hundreds of families in Makoko, 
500 novel and books to under-privileged children, established 
Millenium Development Clubs in two (2) secondary schools and built 
rehabilitation home for ex-sex workers.  
Emuveyan’s work include a construction of bore hole for Taiwo Street - 
Idiabara, renovation of a classroom into a modern library for students 
of Golden Secondary School, donated 50 mosquito nets to different 
families on World Malaria Day, trained over 600 people in five different 
communities on the then MDGs. In 2013, Corps Member Olusina 
Oluyemi Ololalde with state code number ZM/12B/0063 was reported 
by Saturday Tribune to have built a school in Garbadu village of Talatu-
Mafara, Zamfara State, despite the prevailing insecurity in the state 
(Superclo, 2013). Information Nigeria further gathered that in an 
interview with Daily Trust, a Corps Member, Ime Anwana, was 
confirmed to have built a block of 40-bed hostel for Government Girls’ 
Secondary School, Kafin Koro, Paikoro, Niger State in 2012.  
                                                           14 Sir-Kenayo (2016). “Ogun Corpers: Operation Keep Ota Clean CDS Projects in 
Pictures”. Accessed from http://www.sirkenayo.com/ogun-corpers-operation-
keep-ota-clean-cds-projects-in-pictures/ 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Knowledge on Community Development Service and its Impact... 
75 
 
Anwana was reported to have had an accident which caused her 
multiple fractures, but was later able to complete the project. NYSC 
Rivers compiled a set of audible personal CDS projects/programmes in 
their bi-annual Rivers Kopa Magazine to include, Nnamani Deborah 
with state code number RV/15A/0826 marked a Zebra Crossing at GTC 
area, Trans-Amadi in Port Harcourt, Rivers State and also organized 
sensitization and demonstration seminar on the use of the pedestrian 
crossing for the students in the community. In another school, 
Community Secondary School, Mogho, Gokana, Rivers State, Nwanaeto 
Chidebere with state code number RV/15A/1308 converted an 
abandoned classroom blocks to Information and Communication 
Technology centre and installed computers, furnished the centre with 
tables and chairs. Mbuk David Effanga with state code number 
RV/15A/0950 constructed a volleyball pitch to improve sporting 
activities at Community Secondary School, Obelle-Emohua, Rivers State 
He also organized inter-school football tournament for students in 
Ebele-Alimini, Rumuji and Obelle communities15. 
 
Conclusion 
National integration and unity in a country is different from the kind of 
oneness that comes from racial and cultural similarity. However, it 
depicts unity in diversity. National integration mechanisms in Nigeria 
include, among others, Federal unity schools, the federal character 
principle, relocation of the federal capital territory to Abuja considered 
to be the center of the country, revenue sharing formula/fiscal 
federalism and the NYSC programme. The Federal Character Principle 
initiated by the Federal Government of Nigeria as a policy framework 
to achieve fair and effective representation of the different federating 
units of the country in positions of power, status and influence. The 
                                                           15 Arenyaka, L. (June 28th, 2012). “NYSC Lagos State Honours Award: A Tale of 
Four Corps Members”. Accessed from Vanguard: http://www.vanguardngr 
.com/2012/06/nysc-lagos-statehonours-award-a-tale-of-four-corps-members/ 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                   Ayodele Christian 
76 
 
principle was given the legal back up as it was enshrined in 1979 
Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria with the goal to 
accommodate the diverse ethno-religious and geographical shades in 
the decision-making, socio-political and economic apparatuses of the 
state. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Knowledge on Community Development Service and its Impact... 
77 
 
Bibliography 
Abdulazeez, S.T. (2016). “Importance of National Youth Service.” Kwara 
Kopa Magazine. 2015 Batch A. NYSC Kwara: Press and Public 
Relations Unit.  
Amos, V. (September 3rd, 2015). “Role of the National Youth Service 
Corps on National Development.” Accessed\from The Ink 
Newspaper Online: 
http://theinknewspaper.blogspot.co.ke./2015/09/role-of-
national-youth-service-corps.html?m=1  
Anioke, O. (March 18th, 2016). “Corps Member Honoured for Donating 
Borehole, Library”. Accessed from The Nation: 
http://www.thenationonlineng.net/corps-member-honoured-
donatingborehole-library/  
Arenyaka, L. (June 28th, 2012). “NYSC Lagos State Honours Award: A 
Tale of Four Corps Members”. Accessed from Vanguard: 
http://www.vanguardngr .com/2012/06/nysc-lagos-
statehonours-award-a-tale-of-four-corps-members/ 
Chiagozie (April 9th, 2012). “NYSC Corps Member Builds 40 Bed Hostel 
in Niger School”. Accessed from Information Nigeria: 
http://www.informationng.com/2012/04/nysc-member-
builds-40-bedhostel-in-niger-school.html  
Dowex (September 2nd 2015). “Youth Corper Distributes 5,000 Books 
to Students in Ikere Ekiti”. Accessed from 
http://www.eliasdurosimi.com/nyscjobs/2015/09/youth-
corper-distributes-5000- books-to-students-in-ikere-ekiti  
Konk Naija Media (June 25th, 2014). “Francis Okoye – Extraordinary 
Corper Delivers 2.5Million in CDS Projects during his 1 Year 
Service”.http//www.konknaijamedia.com/francis-
okoyeextraordinary-corper-elivers-2-5-million-in-cds-projects-
during-his-1-year-service/  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                   Ayodele Christian 
78 
 
National Youth Service Corps. “Objectives of the Scheme”. Accessed on 
26th June, 2016 from NYSC Official Website: 
http://www.nysc.gov.ng/objectives.php  
National Youth Service Corps. (2015). “ABCs of Community 
Development Service”. NYSC National Headquarters, Abuja: 
Press and Publicity Unit.  
National Youth Service Corps (April, 2016). “Rivers Kopa Magazine”. A 
Bi-annual Publication of Press and Public Relations Unit, NYSC 
Rivers State.  
Sir-Kenayo (2016). “Ogun Corpers: Operation Keep Ota Clean CDS 
Projects in Pictures”. Accessed from 
http://www.sirkenayo.com/ogun-corpers-operation-keep-ota-
clean-cds-projects-in-pictures/  
Superclo (September 13th, 2013). “Corper Honoured in Zamfara for 
Building School – Gets Chieftaincy Title, Political Rights” 
Accessed from Corper: http://www.corpr.ng/corper-honoured-
inzamfara-for-building-school-gets-chieftaincy-title-political-
rights/ 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Act and the Establishment of "Teaching for Nigeria" 
79 
 
 55 55    
    NYSC Act and the Establishment of "Teaching for 
Nigeria" 
 
 
Akaa Ukile Esther 
 
 
Introduction 
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) act established a scheme 
referred to as "the Service Corps.1 The aim of its establishment was to 
provide young graduates not above the age of thirty (30) years from 
tertiary institutions to be deployed to states other than their states of 
origin to undergo a one year compulsory service to the nation. 
Oriakhogba and Ifenemigho state that:  
                                                           1 The National Youth Service Corps Act , Cap N-84, 16th June, 1993. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                             Ukile Akaa Esther 
80 
 
The service Corps is a government initiative that was 
established under Decree No. 24 of 1973, promulgated 
by the Military regime of General Yakubu Gowon (Rtd).  
The Decree was repealed and later replaced by Decree 
51 of 16th June 1993. It  is saved by section 315(5) of 
the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of 
Nigeria (as amended) which recognises it as an existing 
law and gives it the same effect as any other provision 
of the Constitution. It is therefore important to note 
that the establishment of the scheme over the years 
has, to a large extent, achieved its major objective of 
fostering unity among the diverse ethnic groups in 
Nigeria.2 
This chapter shall look at the background to Nigerian education system 
since 1969, showing the dearth in the system that justifies NYSC 
intervention. The second part discusses the establishment of teaching 
for Nigeria. Part three focuses on the impact of teaching since the 
establishment and part four discusses in details the challenges of 
implementing teaching for Nigeria and lastly we shall outline the 
prospects of teaching for Nigeria. 
 
Conceptual clarifications 
For the purpose of explaining issues on the subject matter, it is 
important to clarify concepts that are relevant to this study. Thus, the 
following concepts shall be clarified for a better understanding of this 
chapter. 
 
 
 
 
                                                           2 D. O. Oriakhogba and A. Ifenemigho,  Review of the National Youth Service Corps 
Act: An Agenda for Reform ; Ajayi Crowther University of Law journal , 1 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Act and the Establishment of "Teaching for Nigeria" 
81 
 
National Youth Service Corps Act 
An Act to establish the National Youth Service Corps specifies its 
objectives and the conditions of service for Corps members under the 
NYSC scheme. The NYSC Act is arranged in sections according to the 
objectives of the scheme. The scheme when it was established was 
known as the National Youth Service Corps but in this Act, it is referred 
to as "the service Corps".3The service Corps was established to 
encourage the development of common ties among the Nigerian 
youths. It was also to promote national unity as well as develop the 
Nigerian youth and Nigeria into a great and dynamic economy.  
 
Concept of Teaching: 
Teaching is a set of events, outside the learners which are designed to 
support internal process of learning.4 This activity is carried out by a 
teacher. The role of a teacher is generally categorised into traditional 
role which is teacher centered and modern role where it is student 
based. 
Presently, there has been a change from the traditional role to the 
modern role in teaching. This is because learning increases when the 
teacher builds on the previous experience of the student. However, 
learning differed as each individual has his or her way of assimilation of 
knowledge. For instance, we have individuals who learn fast while 
others are slow learners. Thus, individual attention of the teacher may 
be required in this regard because effective learning is to a great extent 
based on experiences. Direct learning experiences are student centered 
and participation in problem solving. While indirect experience is 
content oriented, carefully designed and organised by the teacher. 
                                                           3 National Youth Service Corps Act , (I993 No 51) N 84- 1. 4 .H Sequeira , Introduction to Concepts of teaching and learning, National 
Institute of Technology , Karnataka , Surathkal , India, uploaded on 24th 
September, 2017 , accessed on 8th March ,2021 https // www.researchgate.net/ 
publication/ 272620585. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                             Ukile Akaa Esther 
82 
 
 
Background to Nigerian education system since 1960 
The western-type of education was introduced in Nigeria by the British 
missionaries in the 1840s. 5  The Anglican and Methodist Church 
Missionary societies started establishing schools in the mid-1800s. 
Thus, the educational system in Nigeria before 1960 was controlled by 
the Europeans.6 The Europeans introduced this formal education and it 
made a quality impact on Nigerian citizens even though there were 
some forms of racial discrimination between the blacks and the 
Europeans who introduced the system in the country. The population 
of enrollees at that time was manageable due to the fact that only few 
people were interested in acquiring western education. The schools 
especially in the southern part of the country had a good number of 
people enrolled into it while in the North; only a few were in school. 
This was largely due to   lack of awareness on the part of parents who 
refused to release their children to acquire the western knowledge. 
Thus, the educational system at that period was very sound coupled 
with the commitment on the part of those who introduced the system 
into Nigeria. However, during the colonial years, the British 
government did not care much to promote education. The schools were 
established and managed by Christian Missionaries. The British 
colonial government only funded a few schools. The policy of the 
British government was only to give grant to mission schools rather 
than expand the system. 
Agreeing with this, Akinlua noted that “The colonial education which 
was inherited by Nigeria was criticised for being too theoretical to be 
able to make meaningful impact on the life of Nigerians.” 7 This is 
                                                           5Elizabeth  Uwelo,  51, Teacher, Interviewed in Lafia , Lafia LGA , on 02- 03 - 2021.  6 Elizabeth  Uwelo,  51, Teacher, Interviewed in Lafia… 7 A. Akinlua, , Driving Curriculum Content and practice in Higher Education in 
Nigeria towards Relevance , in W.O Ibukun and A. Aboluwodi , Nigeria's National 
Policy on Education and the University Curriculum in History : implication for 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Act and the Establishment of "Teaching for Nigeria" 
83 
 
because subjects that were taught in the schools during colonial period 
reflected the taste of the colonial education officials. They built the 
school curricula around the existing colonial values. Learners were 
taught to speak or mimic their teachers in subject like English 
Language in order to show competency.  
Woolman was also forced to comment on the issue of this sort in his 
remark about African education. According to him; African school 
systems today still follow the rigid structure of the colonial periods and 
grade-level progression found in Western education. Where there was 
little change in the curriculum was either one subject was substituted 
for the other or dropped outright. This is the case with the study of 
History which has almost lost its place to Social studies in school 
curriculum.8 However, from 1960s to 1970s, the standard of education 
was sound in Nigeria. 
Oral evidence of Elizabeth Uwelo who had her education during this 
period revealed that:  
The educational structures in Nigeria in the 1960s, 
1970s and 1980s were sound because people that were 
imparting knowledge at that time were qualified and 
dedicated to teaching. Education was mandatory and 
parents were asked to send their wards to schools 
compulsorily. Also the introduction of Christianity as a 
form of religion in Nigeria played a vital role to the 
success of education in the olden days. For instance 
when Christianity came, it opened the eyes of people 
                                                                                                                                       
Nation Building, Journal of Education and Practice Vol 1 No 2 ( 2010) 9. Retrieved 
online on 09/ 03/ 2021 www.iiste.org) 8  D .C Woolman, Educational reconstruction and post-colonial curriculum 
development, in W.O Ibukun and A. Aboluwodi , Nigeria's National Policy on 
Education and the University Curriculum in History : implication for Nation 
Building, Journal of Education and Practice Vol 1 No 2 ( 2010) 9. Retrieved online 
on 09/ 03/ 2021 www.iiste.org). 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                             Ukile Akaa Esther 
84 
 
who began to see reason or reasons why they should 
send their children to school. In addition, people who 
introduced religion in the country already had their 
children enrolled in schools and were reaping the 
benefits. Therefore, people began to see the importance 
of education and began to change their attitude 
towards education. Although, the case was different in 
the Northern part of the country as the people did not 
accept Christianity and were not willing to send their 
children to school.9 
In the early 1980s, Nigeria had a lot of Indians and Ghanaians who 
were engaged as teachers in Nigeria. Then, there were teachers 
employed to teach all subjects and the system was good. The decline in 
the educational system of the country started in the late 1980s and 
early 1990s when Nigeria decided to use indigenous teachers. The 
foreigners who were teaching in the country at that time left and the 
process became indigenous all-comers affairs. This led to the decline in 
the quality of education. The late 1980s saw a sharp fall due to lack of 
commitment and low level of training on the part of the indigenous 
teachers. Apart from that, there was no commitment on the part of the 
government, parents and even the students.10This is because before the 
1980s, education was free but when tuition fee was introduced, some 
parents could no longer afford school fees for their wards while others 
did it out of ignorance especially for the girl-child education. The girl 
child education was treated with levity on misconception that it does 
not worth investing on her training before given out for marriage.  
The policy makers too started failing in their roles. The standard of 
education started declining in such a way that in 1990s, teachers were 
owed their salaries for several months across the country. Thus, the 
                                                           9 Elizabeth  Uwelo,  51, Teacher, Interviewed in Lafia , Lafia LGA , on 02- 03 - 2021. 10 Elizabeth  Uwelo,  51, Teacher, Interviewed… 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Act and the Establishment of "Teaching for Nigeria" 
85 
 
struggle by teachers for their welfare brought about trends of 
spontaneous strikes which further crippled the educational systems. 
Universities and tertiary institutions also embarked on strikes in order 
to fight for their rights. This situation created a vacuum in the 
educational needs of the people and the society.  This contributed 
greatly to the fallen standard of education in the country. Only few 
private and mission schools maintained the standard for education. The 
establishment of NYSC scheme has helped in improving the education 
system.  
In Nasarawa State there are schools that have shortfall of teachers 
especially for particular subjects such as Mathematics, Physics, 
Chemistry and Economics among others. The scheme since 
establishment, has posted a great number of Corps members to help 
out in teaching. There are some Corps members that were trained in 
the universities as professional teachers while others that do not have 
the teaching qualification were trained on basic teaching methods 
during the Orientation Course   
On the issue of complementary roles played by Corps members posted 
to schools, Principal Government Science School, Lafia , Nasarawa State, 
Saidu Usman Baba, said : 
Corp members help in the area of teaching basically 
where you have short fall of teaching staff so they make 
for that especially in the area of science subjects. Also 
they carry out some Community Development projects.  
But most of them were not trained as educationalists 
even though some of them graduated from institutions 
where they read education but there are very few. So 
when they are posted to schools, the management 
organise in-house training to help them learn the 
rudiments of teaching, how to go about their lessons, 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                             Ukile Akaa Esther 
86 
 
schemes of work, mark registers and so on and 
gradually they build into the system.11 
 
The Establishment of "Teaching for Nigeria" 
A critical historical analysis of the educational policies in Nigeria that 
promote and regulate education in the country reveals certain aspects 
which showed that the system passed through three significant phases, 
before amalgamation, pre-independence and post-independence eras. 
The pre-colonial Nigeria had various structures operated in various 
societies. In the northern part of Nigeria the Islamic religious belief was 
deeply rooted and educational orientation based on the Quran.12 The 
southern part of the country on the other hand, had its own traditional 
form of education based on the indigenous culture and traditions. This 
was the scenario in 1842 when the Christian missionaries entered the 
south and introduced western education. 
Hauwa asserted that thus: The aim of education as given by the 
missionaries were just to enable recipients to learn to read the Bible in 
English and the local languages, gardening and agriculture as well as 
train local schoolmasters, catechists and clergymen.13 Even though the 
missionaries’ major aim of establishing schools was to propagate 
Christianity, they left a great legacy in their educational works and 
development. During colonial period in Nigeria, the British used codes 
and ordinances which became guidelines for education in the country 
and served as the basis for educational policies, laws and techniques in 
the educational system.  
                                                           11 Saidu Usman Baba, 56, Principal Government Science School, Lafia, Interviewed 
on 08/ 03/2021 12  Abdullahi Suleiman, 70, retired civil servant, Interviewed in Lafia LGA , on  07/ 
03/ 2021. 13 H. Imam , Educational policy in Nigeria from the colonial era to the post-
Independence period, Italian Journal of Sociology of education, 1, 2012,182 - 190 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Act and the Establishment of "Teaching for Nigeria" 
87 
 
The National Curriculum Conference, a seminar of experts drawn from 
a wide range of interest groups within Nigeria, was convened in 1973.14 
The seminar deliberated on what a national policy on education for an 
independent and sovereign Nigeria should be. The outcome of the 
seminar was a draft document which; after due comments was received 
from the states and other interest groups, led to the final document. 
The National Policy on Education was first published in 1977. The 
revised edition of the policy on education enunciates the guidelines, 
objectives, standards, structures, strategies and management for 
achieving the national education goals in Nigeria. 15 This policy serves 
as an instrument for national development and change which can be 
achieved through teaching and learning processes. It makes education 
compulsory and a right for every Nigerian citizen to attain education 
irrespective of gender, social status, religion, ethnic affiliations among 
others. Education is to be qualitative, comprehensive, functional and 
relevant to the needs of the society. 16 Among other goals of education 
in Nigeria is to develop an individual into a morally sound , patriotic 
and effective citizen, total integration of the individual into the 
immediate community, the Nigerian society and the world which is 
achievable through adequate implementation by government at all 
levels. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           14  T.K Akinwamide , Harnessing the language  Diversity through the National Youth 
Service  Corps ( NYSC) Programme in Multilingual Nigeria : Synergising   our 
Separation , International Journal of Humanities Social Sciences and education ( 
IJHSSE)  vol 6 , Issue 1, January 2019 , 75- 80. 15 National Policy on Education in Nigeria, Lagos: Nigeria Educational Research and 
Development Council ( NERDC)  publishers, 6 the edition, 2013, 1 . 16 National Policy on Education in Nigeria, Lagos… 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                             Ukile Akaa Esther 
88 
 
Impact of "Teaching for Nigeria" since Establishment 
Umeh states that education is one of the most important sources of 
opportunity in any society.17It gives an individual the ability to read 
and write and access to wide body of knowledge. The impact of 
education is the product and quality of its implementation in a 
particular society. In contemporary period, education must respond to 
a number of challenges and needs that society faces the on a daily basis. 
Regardless of the level of development of society, education should be 
one of the most important social activities. This is because quality 
education is the main driving force of any given society. Unfortunately, 
the goal of teaching in Nigeria has not recorded remarkable impacts. 
The government which should recognise and invest much in education 
is not doing so. However, there is no doubt that there develop changes 
in the educational Systems since its establishment in Nigeria. This is 
because there is competition for economic, military, and other forms of 
domination which has led to continuous analysis and re-evaluation of 
educational systems and the adoption of specific strategies for 
improvement.  
The introduction of teaching in Nigeria has greatly transformed 
individuals and has allowed them to effectively participate in social 
progress. This is because education is a key factor in social 
development and social change which, in turn, brings about collective 
transformation of individuals.18 The impact can be seen in professional, 
technical, social, moral aspects among others. 
Also, the evolving knowledge that redefines the society, skills and 
competences needed in working are developed through teaching and 
learning processes. But the relevance of learning environments and 
teaching methods should be critically evaluated. The role of teacher 
                                                           17 J.c Umeh, Trade Disputes settlement procedure in O. O Okpeh, B.J Audu and 
Shuaibu Ibrahim ( eds) Labour Unionism , Leadership and Development in Nigeria, 
Kaduna , Nigeria Defence Academy publishers , 2020 : 185. 18 Abel Daniel, 52 , Civil Servant, Interviewed in Lafia on 10/ 03/ 2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Act and the Establishment of "Teaching for Nigeria" 
89 
 
education is crucial; the skills and competences of a new generation of 
teachers are largely dependent on the content, approach and practices 
of the teacher education program they attend to. Teacher education 
should thus be leading the way towards 21st century education.  
The government on the other hand has failed in its role of developing 
the educational sector by not prioritising the educational needs of the 
society. This can be seen in the area of budget allocation. It is only a 
small percentage of budgetary allocation that goes to the country’s 
educational needs. This has impacted negatively on teaching and 
learning in the country. The government prioritised other sectors and 
left education down. These activities have constituted a negative 
impact on the educational system of the country. 
 
Challenges of Implementing "Teaching for Nigeria" 
Education in Nigeria has encountered different kinds of challenges 
which have resulted to decline in the standard of education in the 
country. One of the major challenges militating against the 
implementation of teaching in Nigeria is poor funding. This unfortunate 
situation is as a result of lack of political commitment on the part of 
government at the level of funding in educational sector amidst rising 
demands and cost of education. The fund government allocates to the 
educational sector is incapable of addressing the educational needs of 
citizens. Despite the UNESCO's recommendations of allocation of 26% 
of a nation's national income to the sector, Nigerian government have 
not implement this.19 Government gives less concern to issues of 
funding in all levels of education. This has in no small measure affected 
the teaching to the standard of the National education policy in schools 
across the nation.  
                                                           19 T.K Akinwamide , Harnessing the language of Diversity through the National 
Youths Service Corps ( NYSC)  Programme in Multilingual Nigeria: Synergising Our 
Separation a International Journal of Humanities, Social Sciences and education ( 
IJHSSE) vol 6 , Issue 1 , January ,2019 , 75- 80. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                             Ukile Akaa Esther 
90 
 
Secondly, lack of qualified and experienced teachers to implement 
teaching in schools is another challenge. Given the obvious importance 
of teachers, there is inadequate supply of qualified and experienced 
teachers who have career development that would enable them to 
impart knowledge on the learners. There are reported cases of increase 
in the rate of absentee and ineffective teachers in schools. Most 
teachers lacked capacities to conform to the modern methods of 
teaching and that affects the child's productivity.20 The conditions in 
primary schools are worse especially when there are lesser teachers to 
the number of classes they handled. Sometimes teaching is left in the 
hands of Corps members posted to teach in school. Some teachers in 
Nigeria today are those without the knowledge of the subject matter, 
skills, zeal and commitment to teach neither are they ready for in-
service training. The situation affect primary schools more unlike the 
secondary schools where teachers teach based on their area of 
specialisation, primary school teachers teach all subjects. Thus, the 
situation has caused a drastic decline in the standard of education in 
the country. 
Another challenge hindering the effective teaching is lack of school 
infrastructures both in the rural and urban areas. The degree of 
infrastructural decay in Nigerian schools is an eyesore that should be 
the priority of government at all levels. The sorry state of school 
building has become potential death traps for both teachers and 
learners. In some rural schools, classes are being held under trees 
during the dry season and when it is raining season, pupils are crowded 
into the few dilapidated classrooms available to them.21 Poor 
Infrastructure in schools includes lack of good buildings, classrooms, 
playgrounds, libraries, laboratories and other educational equipment. 
                                                           20 Terkaa Ucha, 40+, Chairman, Benue State House of Assembly Committee on 
Education, Interviewed in Makurdi 08/03/2021. 21  Terkaa Ucha, 40+, Chairman, Benue State House of Assembly Committee on 
Education, Interviewed in Makurdi 25/02/2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Act and the Establishment of "Teaching for Nigeria" 
91 
 
This has affected the implementation of curriculum to meet the vision 
of Nigerian school. The absence of these infrastructures in most cases 
has seriously constrained the teaching and learning objectives of the 
curriculum. These infrastructures constitute the learning environments 
in schools. Where there is inadequate infrastructure, learning is 
affected. High quality infrastructure facilitates better instruction, 
improves student outcomes, and reduces dropout rates.22  When 
schools are in good condition and attractive, it encourages better 
attendance and concentration of students. 
Lack of motivation of teachers is another serious challenge that affects 
teachers’ effectiveness and efficiency in the schools. On teachers’ 
motivation, Ihebom and Uko asserted that many teachers hide their 
identities in public, unlike other professionals who are happy to be 
seen as specialists in their fields. Also many teachers want to quit the 
teaching job as quickly as possible for more recognised and more 
rewarding careers. Most teachers are faced with a motivation crisis 
which has far brought negative implications on learners. Secondary 
school teachers experience a lot of challenges that affect learner 
performance through dissatisfaction. As the teacher is the centre of 
instruction, his satisfaction guarantee high academic performance.23  
Generally, the condition of service as regards welfare of teachers in 
Nigeria is poor. In some states of the federation, teachers are not paid 
for months or years and are not promoted as at when due. Typically in 
Benue State, teachers have not been promoted for a very long time.24  In 
this situation, one cannot get the best out of such teachers because they 
are not motivated to impact positively on the learners. Also low 
remuneration causes teachers demotivation. Teachers, like their 
                                                           22 B. Ihebom and J. O Uko , Challenges and Prospects of secondary Education in 
Niger , International Journal of Scientific Research in Education, September 2020 
670- 688).  23B. Ihebom and J. O Uko , Challenges and Prospects…   24 Terkaa Ucha, 40+, Chairman, Benue State House of Assembly Committee on 
Education, Interviewed in Makurdi 25/02/2021.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                             Ukile Akaa Esther 
92 
 
counterparts in other professions, want to enjoy their rewards on earth 
and not in heaven as they are made to understand. In the case of Corps 
members who are posted to schools to teach, they serve as source of 
cheap labour especially to state governments and private organisations 
who do not want to employ permanent staff because of the cost of their 
salaries. The allowances payable by the government to Corps members 
does not meet the needs of the Corps members, thus they are not 
motivated to teach. State governments and private organisations where 
the Corps members are posted are supposed to pay the Corps members 
some stipends depending on their financial strength.25  This provision 
has been seriously abused. While some states pay, others do not pay 
Corps members their monthly stipend. The Corps Members are made to 
do more work with less pay. This exploitation has dragged on for years 
and has affected the implementation of teaching in Nigeria.  
Another challenge is lack of instructional materials. The basic teaching 
tools that are expected for effective teaching and learning are not 
available both on the side of the learners and teachers. Nigeria makes 
policies and enacts laws with nobody to implement or executes the 
laws.26They includes curriculum modules, textbooks, continuous 
assessment booklets and introductory technology materials are 
inadequate in schools. 
Eya, explaining what instructional materials mean, said: Instructional 
materials are all forms of information carriers which can be used to 
record, store, preserve, transmit, concretise or retrieve information for 
                                                           25 A.J Ifeanyichukwu and N. Apine, The Problems and Negative Effects of the Use 
of National Youths Service Corp (NYSC) Members as Ad-hoc Teaching Staff in 
Nigeria: A Case Study of Kalgo Local Government Area of Kebbi State, IOSR Journal 
of Research & Method in Education (IOSR- JRME, Vol 4 , Issue 6 very 1 ( Nov - Dec 
2014) 01- 05, www.iorsjournal.org. 26 Terkaa Ucha, 40+, Chairman, Benue State House of Assembly Committee on 
Education, Interviewed in Makurdi 25/02/2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Act and the Establishment of "Teaching for Nigeria" 
93 
 
the purpose of teaching and learning.27 For learning to take place 
effectively, there is need for the teacher to prepare pupils senses of 
seeing, hearing, smelling, tasting and touching through the application 
of instructional materials. However, it is pathetic to note that the 
instructional materials required for effective teaching and learning in 
Nigerian schools are grossly inadequate. This has affected the 
implementation of policies or acts designed to improve the quality of 
education in the country. Even in situations where instructional 
materials are available, there is the problem of ineffective curriculum 
implementation such as the proper use of the scheme of work set out to 
be taught for the term and session. This has affected teaching and 
learning system adversely. Most times, both private and public schools 
make the bulk use of Corps members who come and go after the period 
of National Service.  
Finally the politicisation of education is one major challenge that has 
affected the implementation of teaching in Nigeria. This can be seen in 
cases of appointments of heads in the ministries of education at both 
state and federal government levels.  The posting of teachers to juicy 
schools with high enrolment, good accommodation facilities and other 
social amenities is another area to consider. Government instead of 
going to the rural areas to set up schools, rather focus attention on 
urban centres, denying the grassroots and communities the comfort of 
good classrooms, accommodation and school structures.28 This affects 
students comfort to concentrate on what is being taught. Meanwhile, 
some government officials influence school buildings where goats and 
sheep will occupy due to low population or no body to attend. The 
politicisation of education also has led to abandoning of educational 
                                                           27 P. Eya, Role of instructional materials in improving qualitative education in 
Nigeria in Bartholomew Ihebom and Jarius Ochege Uko , Challenges and Prospects 
of secondary Education in Niger , International Journal of Scientific Research in 
Education, September 2020 670- 688. 28 Terkaa Ucha, 40+, Chairman, Benue State House of Assembly Committee on 
Education, Interviewed in Makurdi 25/02/2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                             Ukile Akaa Esther 
94 
 
projects half way, thereby making the school compound to become 
theatres for perpetuating all forms of social vices or hide outs for 
hoodlums. All these anomalies constitute a serious hindrance to 
effective implementation of teaching in the country. 
 
Prospects of "Teaching for Nigeria" 
For government to make effective implementation of teaching in 
Nigeria and make the profession lucrative, effective and attractive, the 
following should be considered. 
• Government and the private sector should allocate more 
financial resources to schools.  
• Government and private school owners should employ 
qualified teachers with educational background or 
qualification; more so, the NYSC scheme should also deploy 
only Corps members with educational qualifications to schools 
to teach. 
• More attention should be given to school infrastructure. 
Government and school management bodies should regularly 
maintain school facilities and replace those that are worn out. 
• Teachers should be motivated through their remuneration and 
other incentives that will encourage them to be productive. 
• Government should maintain UNESCO bench mark of 35 
students per teacher to avoid overcrowded classrooms. 
• Teachers’ area of specialisation should be considered before 
posting of teachers to schools. They should be engaged more in 
carrying out training for improvement as well as given 
opportunity to enhance their skills. 
  
Conclusion 
In general, emphasis should be on the ways to effectively implement 
teaching in schools to guarantee academic prosperity, productivity, 
competency and efficiency in order to improve the academic standard 
of Nigerian institutions of learning. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Act and the Establishment of "Teaching for Nigeria" 
95 
 
To achieve this, Education in Nigeria should not be allowed for 
government alone to manage but private sector and other non-
governmental Organisations (NGO) should be fully incorporated into 
the educational system. There should be adequate provision of funds 
by government at all levels for proper management of educational 
institutions in the country. Also dilapidated facilities should be 
properly renovated and instructional materials should be properly 
maintained to meet the need of individuals. 
Finally, there is need for an amendment of the NYSC Act to improve the 
number of teachers in schools. A legislation to amend the NYSC Act to 
allow the Scheme to establish a "Teaching for Nigeria" pathway which 
will allow for the identification, recruitment and deployment of willing, 
capable and promising young Nigerians to serve as teachers in 
underserved areas during their service year and for a number of years 
after.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                             Ukile Akaa Esther 
96 
 
Bibliography 
 
Ajayi A.O , Resources utilisation: The mandate of education Managers in 
Bartholomew Ihebom and Jarius Ochege Uko , Challenges and 
Prospects of secondary Education in Niger , International 
Journal of Scientific Research in Education, September 2020 
670- 688). 
Akinlua A, Driving Curriculum Content and practice in Higher 
Education in Nigeria towards Relevance , in W.O Ibukun and A. 
Aboluwodi , Nigeria's National Policy on Education and the 
University Curriculum in History : implication for Nation 
Building, Journal of Education and Practice Vol 1 No 2 ( 2010) 9. 
Retrieved online on 09/ 03/ 2021 www.iiste.org. 
Akinwamide T.K , Harnessing the language  Diversity through the 
National Youth Service  Corps ( NYSC) Programme in 
Multilingual Nigeria : Synergising   our Separation , 
International Journal of Humanities Social Sciences and 
education ( IJHSSE)  vol 6 , Issue 1, January 2019 .  
 Eya P, Role of instructional materials in improving qualitative 
education in Nigeria in Bartholomew Ihebom and Jarius Ochege 
Uko , Challenges and Prospects of secondary Education in Niger 
, International Journal of Scientific Research in Education, 
September 2020 . 
 Ifeanyichukwu, Amaka John and Apine, Not, The Problems and 
Negative Effects of the Use of National Youths Service Corp 
(NYSC) Members as Ad-hoc Teaching Staff in Nigeria: A Case 
Study of Kalgo Local Government Area of Kebbi State, IOSR 
Journal of Research & Method in Education ( IOSR- JRME, Vol 4 , 
Issue 6 very 1 ( Nov - Dec 2014) 01- 05, www.iorsjournal.org. 
Ihebom B and  Uko J O , Challenges and Prospects of secondary 
Education in Niger , International Journal of Scientific Research 
in Education, September 2020.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Act and the Establishment of "Teaching for Nigeria" 
97 
 
Imam H, Educational policy in Nigeria from the colonial era to the post-
Independence period, Italian Journal of Sociology of education, 
1, 2012. 
National Youth Service Corps Act , (I993 No 51) N 84- 1. 
National Policy on Education in Nigeria, Lagos: Nigeria Educational 
Research and Development Council ( NERDC)  publishers, 6 the 
edition, 2013 . 
Oriakhogba  D. O and  Ifenemigho A  Review of the National Youth 
Service Corps Act:An Agenda for Reform ; Ajayi Crowther 
University of Law journal. 
Sequeira H , Introduction to Concepts of teaching and learning, National 
Institute of Technology , Karnataka , Surathkal , India, uploaded 
on 24th September, 2017 , accessed on 8th March ,2021 https 
// www.researchgate.net/ publication/ 272620585. 
The National Youth Service Corps Act , Cap N-84, 16th June, 1993. 
Umeh J.C, Trade Disputes settlement procedure in O. O Okpeh, B.J Audu 
and Shuaibu Ibrahim ( eds) Labour Unionism , Leadership and 
Development in Nigeria, Kaduna , Nigeria Defence Academy 
publishers , 2020 . 
Woolman D.C, Educational reconstruction and post-colonial curriculum 
development, in W.O Ibukun and A. Aboluwodi , Nigeria's 
National Policy on Education and the University Curriculum in 
History : implication for Nation Building, Journal of Education 
and Practice Vol 1 No 2 ( 2010) 9. Retrieved online on 09/ 03/ 
2021 www.iiste.org. 
 
Oral Interview 
 
Abdullahi Suleiman, 70, retired civil servant, Interviewed in Lafia LGA, 
07/ 03/ 2021 
Abel Daniel, 52 , Civil Servant, Interviewed in Lafia on 10/ 03/ 2021 
Baba, Saidu, 56, Principal Government Science School, Lafia, 
Interviewed on 08/ 03/2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                             Ukile Akaa Esther 
98 
 
Ucha Terkaa, 40+, Chairman, Benue State House of Assembly 
Committee on Education, Interviewed in Makurdi 25/02/2021. 
Uwelo Elizabeth,  51, Teacher, Interviewed in Lafia , Lafia LGA , on 02- 
03 - 2021.  
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Influence of the Activities of the National Youth Service Corps... 
99 
 
 66 66    
    Influence of the Activities of the National Youth 
Service Corps on the Knowledge of Social Issues in 
their Host Communities 
 
 
Rufai Aliyu 
 
 
Introduction  
One of the bedrocks of the development of every nation is education. 
Illiteracy is a major developmental challenge, which means that only a 
literate nation can make greater strides towards development. The 
federal government of Nigeria has taken great steps to improve the 
levels of literacy in the nation through the educational programmes, 
institutions, and the mass media. The National Youth Service Corps 
(NYSC) scheme is one of the ways that the federal government has 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND EDUCATION                                                            Rufai Aliyu  
100 
 
brought education to the communities of the 36 states of the federation 
plus the FCT, Abuja. This is why most of the Corps members are sent to 
the secondary schools in these communities for their primary 
assignment. The educational institutions are one of the major 
establishments in the country that have utilised the services of Corps 
members over the years. This is supported by the fact that a lot of 
community development activities have been carried out in schools. 
The Corps members have played crucial roles in the education of their 
host community members. “The impact of these young Nigerians is well 
documented and is particularly felt in educational and health 
institutions across the country where professionals are inadequate.”1  
Oyebamiji and Adekola noted that:2illiteracy is one of the lead causes of 
poverty in the nation. The News writer described poverty as being 
exhibited through the low level of income and resources for sustaining 
livelihood; lack of nutrition; illiteracy; and low access to other basic 
services; increasing ill-health resulting in deaths; homelessness; unsafe 
surroundings, and social discrimination.3 These are some of the social 
issues that affect the society and are hindrances to the wellbeing of the 
nation’s citizens. These issues are being worsened by the members of 
the society that ignore their profound influence on daily living. The 
NYSC scheme was established in 1973 under the administration of 
General Yakubu Gowon. Abbas4 explained that the NYSC scheme was 
created to rebuild Nigeria after the civil war. The scheme was 
established by decree No. 24 on the 22nd of May 1973. The NYSC 
scheme was put in place in an effort to bring attention to the social 
                                                           1F. Abbas, NYSC: Service or Servitude. http://thenationonlineng.net/nysc-service-
or-servitude/ Retrieved on the 18th of January 2016. 2M.A Oyebamiji, and G. Adekola, Fundamentals of Community Development in 
Nigeria. University of Port Harcourt Press, Port Harcourt. 2008 3 The Newswriter, Causes of Poverty in Nigeria 
http://www.thenewswriterng.com/?p=12145 Retrieved on the 18th of January 
2016. 4F. Abbas, NYSC: Service or Servitude. http://thenationonlineng.net/nysc-service-
or-servitude/ Retrieved on the 18th of January 2016. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Influence of the Activities of the National Youth Service Corps... 
101 
 
issues of the country and provide solutions for them. As noted in the 
NYSC Handbook, the fundamental aim of the scheme is to inspire the 
youths of Nigeria to selflessly serve the communities of the nation and 
express the spirit of unity and brotherhood, regardless of culture and 
social position.  
This chapter examines the influence of the activities of the scheme on 
the knowledge of social issues in host communities in Rivers and Akwa 
Ibom States. To achieve this, the paper will determine the extent to 
which these activities have improved the knowledge of the community 
members on social issues.  
 
Conceptual Clarification 
Social Issues 
The term social issues refer to the various topics and problems that are 
connected with the society and the people in it. Genuine development 
cannot occur if these issues are ignored. Social issues also encompass 
the educative aspects of the community development activities of Corps 
members. Social issues include child healthcare and disease prevention, 
malnutrition, poverty alleviation, women and youth empowerment, 
mass literacy/adult literacy, patriotism, charity work for social welfare, 
as well as social vices – cultism, truancy, bribery and corruption, 
kidnapping, murder, armed robbery etc. There are various means 
through which the knowledge of community members on social issues 
can be improved. These include the construction of billboards and 
signposts for public enlightenment, the mass media (radio, television, 
and newspapers), the internet/social media, as well as organised 
workshops, seminars, and events. The Corps members have used such 
means over the years to educate the public on social issues.  
Youth Service: Youth service refers to a non-military, intensive 
engagement of young people in an organised activity that contributes 
to the local, national, or world community. Youth service is widely 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND EDUCATION                                                            Rufai Aliyu  
102 
 
recognised and valued by the society, with minimal compensation or in 
some cases, no compensation to the server. Youth service gives 
opportunity for youth development, youth voice and reflection. This 
may take the form of a youth programmes where young people are 
recruited, offered leadership opportunities, participate in activities that 
improve the community, and are trained and mentored. The most 
common age group defined as ‘youth’ is 15-30 years of age, and in other 
parlance, 15-40 years of age. The United Nations defines youth as 15-24 
years of age. The duration of most youths in service for either their 
community or their nation depends on the settings they find 
themselves in. Some communities regard long-range youth service as 
being from six months to two years of service; however, this time range 
can vary with each country’s national youth service policy.5 
Knowledge: Knowledge is often defined as a belief that is true and 
justified. This definition has led to its measurement by methods that 
rely solely on the correctness of answers. A correct or incorrect answer 
is interpreted to mean simply that a person knows or does not know 
something. Such methods of measurement have serious deficiencies 
that can be alleviated by expanding the definition of knowledge to 
include the test-taker's certainty. The person's certainty about the 
answers on a test captures important, but now neglected, dimensions 
of knowledge.  
Historical roots of certainty are essential component of knowledge; a 
computer analysis of a person's answers and self-assessment certainty 
responses provides multidimensional scores about a person's 
knowledge. All these are considered as determinants for measuring 
Knowledge. 
 
 
 
                                                           5“Youth Service” National Youth Commission. Retrieved 4/26/09. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Influence of the Activities of the National Youth Service Corps... 
103 
 
Community Development 
The United Nations defines community development as "a process 
where community members come together to take collective action and 
generate solutions to common problems."6 It is a broad concept, 
applied to the practices of civic leaders, activists, involved citizens, and 
professionals to improve various aspects of communities, typically 
aiming to build stronger and more resilient local communities. 
Community development is also understood as a professional 
discipline, and is defined by the International Association for 
Community Development as "a practice-based profession and an 
academic discipline that promotes participative democracy, sustainable 
development, rights, economic opportunity, equality and social justice, 
through the organisation, education and empowerment of people 
within their communities, whether these be of locality, identity or 
interest, in urban and rural settings".7 
Community development seeks to empower individuals and groups of 
people with the skills they need to effect change within their 
communities. These skills are often created through the formation of 
social groups working for a common agenda. Community developers 
must understand both how to work with individuals and how to affect 
communities' positions within the context of larger social institutions. 
Illiteracy: Illiteracy is the inability to read or write, or the actual or 
perceived state of being uneducated or insufficiently educated. social 
judgment is so powerfully built into the term illiteracy that scholars 
now generally use more neutral terms, such as non-literate (for 
societies and individuals for whom literacy is not a relevant issue) 
and pre-literate (for societies and conditions before literacy emerged 
or was encountered and adopted). Formerly, the term illiterate was 
used to describe someone without book learning or a 
                                                           6“community Development” 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Community_development. Accessed 21/3/21 7 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND EDUCATION                                                            Rufai Aliyu  
104 
 
liberal education (especially in classical latin and greek), even though 
such a person could read in a vernacular language or handle accounts 
and correspondence. However, the word also carried the connotation 
of ‘unpolished’, ‘ignorant’, or ‘inferior’, as in ‘the disadvantage of an 
illiterate education’.8 
 
The Community Development Service (CDS) Programme 
The Community Development Service (CDS) is one of the cardinal 
programmes of the NYSC scheme. It is through the CDS that the Corps 
members of NYSC undertake developmental activities during their one 
year of national service to improve their host communities in one way 
or the other. It is one of the requirements of the NYSC Corps members 
to participate in Community Development Service as part of their 
contribution to developing the country. Onyeozu9 defined the concept 
of community development as an educational method based on the 
definition adopted by the United Nations. Community Development is 
defined as “an educational method by which the efforts of the people 
themselves are united with those of governmental authorities to 
improve the economic, social and cultural conditions of communities, 
to integrate these communities into the life of the nation, to enable 
them to contribute fully to national progress.” One of the objectives of 
Community Development as given by Anyanwu10  is “to inculcate among 
the members of a community a sense of citizenship and spirit of civic 
consciousness.” This sense of citizenship and civic consciousness 
occurs when the people are aware of the social issues affecting them 
and how to bring about the necessary improvement.  
                                                           8“Illiteracy” https://www.encyclopedia.com/social-sciences-and-
law/education/education-terms-and-concepts/illiteracy, Accessed 21/3/21. 9A.M. Onyeozu, Understanding Community Development. Davidstones Publishers 
Ltd, Port Harcourt:  2007, P.20 10A.M. Onyeozu, Understanding Community Development... 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Influence of the Activities of the National Youth Service Corps... 
105 
 
The Community Development Service (CDS) which is a component of 
the scheme and a year-round affair avails Corps members with the 
opportunity to work with the local communities to promote self-
reliance by systematically prospecting and executing development 
projects and programme which impact positively on the socio-
economic development of the host communities.11  Each Corps member 
is assigned to a particular CDS group as his/her Group CDS; this is 
compulsory, while Personal CDS project/programme is optional for 
interested Corps members. Group CDS is to be attended once in a week. 
The Corps members are formed into groups and also placed for various 
purposes and aims. Corps members are expected to use one day in a 
week for this category of CDS and are not expected to attend duties in 
their Places of Primary Assignment on such days. 
There is also the personal CDS. This CDS activity is where individual 
Corps members can execute project/programme in their host 
communities based on the needs they intend to solve within a 
community. Corps members are encouraged in addition to the group 
CDS to look out for areas where they could make individual impact in 
the community. It could be construction projects like building of toilets, 
bridges, classrooms, or other project such as establishment of libraries, 
extra moral classes, charity work, vocational training for empowerment 
of unemployed youths, and many more. Where a project/programme 
requires financial support, Corps members are encouraged to source 
fund from their host community and other organisations after getting 
approval from the management of NYSC.  The third is the collaborative 
CDS. The scheme partners with National and Non-Governmental 
organisations and other establishments to implement development 
programmes. The Scheme signs MOU with the partners, clearly stating 
                                                           11National Youth Service Corps.Objectives of the Scheme. Retrieved from NYSC: 
http://www.nysc.gov.ng/objectives.php 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND EDUCATION                                                            Rufai Aliyu  
106 
 
each partner’s roles/responsibilities.12  Corps members are usually 
involved as Volunteers on this programme. Collaborators in this type of 
CDS include Road Safety Group (Federal Road Safety Corps), 
Reproductive Health & HIV/AIDs Group, Anti-Corruption (Economic 
and Financial Crimes Commission & Independent Corrupt Practices and 
others related offences Commission) Group, Service Delivery Group 
(Attitudinal Change, Re-Branding), Sustainable Development Goals, 
Medical and Health Services Group (Red Cross, Breast Without Spot, 
Polio Plus.), Drug Free and Quality Control Group (National Drug Law 
Enforcement Agency and National Agency for Food and Drugs 
Administration and Control) and Corps Legal Aid Scheme Group) Legal 
Council of Nigeria and Ministries of Justice. 
 
Impact of Corps Members on Knowledge of Social Issues 
Based on the finding obtained from the field, the activities of Corps 
members are significantly related to the improvement of the 
knowledge of community members on social issues. These activities 
include public enlightenment/training, social activities and 
establishment of centers for schools, medical outreach, and 
humanitarian activities among others. These activities do directly 
contribute to the improvement of the knowledge of community 
members on social issues. This could be due to the fact that there are 
other available means through which the community members can 
improve their knowledge of social issues e.g. the mass media (radio, 
television, and newspapers), the internet, workshops, and events 
organised by private organisations or other governmental 
organisations. Over the years, these other organisations have 
                                                           12A. Abdullahi& L. Cheri, “Analysis of the Implementation of Community 
Development Service Projects of National Youth Service Corps: Channels and 
Hindrances”.Ilorin Journal of Administration and Development, Vol. 2 (2) 
December, 2016 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Influence of the Activities of the National Youth Service Corps... 
107 
 
constructed billboards and signposts to enlighten the public. These 
other means of information and enlightenment operate independently 
and have been accessible to the public in one form or the other.13  
The activities of the Corps members aimed at improving knowledge on 
social issues are put in place to assist these independent agencies of the 
society to educate the public. The NYSC as organisation, like every 
other organisation constantly uses the abovementioned forms of media 
to disseminate information to the public. According to Olutola14  the 
determination of what project should be undertaken for which local 
community has been a virtual prerogative of Corps members and the 
NYSC field staff in each state. Apparently, the Corps members are the 
initiators of development in their host communities. As long as the 
community members look at a typical NYSC project and refer to it as a 
Corps member’s project, true ownership has not been taken. It is also 
possible that the community members could show interest in the 
educative activities of Corps members without any real intention of 
using what they have learnt on a long term basis. This study also 
indicate that whether the Corps members carry out their activities or 
not, the community members will always find other independent 
means to educate themselves on social issues or other issues of 
interest. The sporting events organised in schools by the Corps 
members, have been used to improve knowledge on social issues by 
                                                           13A. Olutola, Effectiveness of the NYSC-Sponsored Community Projects in Nigeria. 
Illorin Journal of Education, University of Illorin, Kwara State. 
http://www.unilorin.edu.ng/journals/education/ije/feb1981/effective 
ness%20of%20the%20nysc%sponsored%20community% 
20projects%20in%20nigeria.pdf retrieved on February 24th, 2014. 14Daily Trust (2011) NYSC and Its Challenges. 
http://www.dailytrust.com.ng/index.php?option= com 
_content&view=article&id=20103:nysc-and-itschallenges& 
catid=17:editorial&Itemid=9 retrieved on the 16th of March 2012: 1 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND EDUCATION                                                            Rufai Aliyu  
108 
 
targeting the behaviour, enthusiasm, and enlightenment of the 
youths.15  
When the construction/renovation works of Corps members are not 
adequately maintained by the community members, this improvement 
can be affected, because of the low level of utilization. These works 
include game courts (volleyball, basketball, and badminton), classroom 
blocks, signposts, billboards, computer literacy centres, laboratories, 
etc. This study implies that the activities of Corps members are 
significant enough to result in a greater change in the improvement of 
knowledge of social issues. Although the educative needs and the 
empowerment needs of the community members are catered for by the 
Corps members, the fact still remains that when the people are the 
recipients of development instead of the initiators, the influence will be 
low even when efforts are made to sustain it.16  
It is recommended that the Corps members should even focus more on 
awakening the people to take the first steps in their own development. 
The social issue of healthcare and increased life expectancy can be 
catered for through increased and improved medical outreach 
activities by Corps members. Moreover, the youths in the communities 
should take a more active role in developing themselves in terms of 
education and utilise the expertise and experience gained from their 
various institutions. Finally, it is apparent that the daily education of 
the public on the social issues that affect them promotes life 
expectancy, unity, and peace. 
 
 
 
 
                                                           15M.A Oyebamiji, and G. Adekola, Fundamentals of Community Development in 
Nigeria. University of Port Harcourt Press, Port Harcourt. 2008 16M.A Oyebamiji, and G. Adekola, Fundamentals of Community Development in 
Nigeria… 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Influence of the Activities of the National Youth Service Corps... 
109 
 
Conclusion 
This study has revealed that the activities of the NYSC Corps members 
have influenced positively on the youths of their host communities 
especially in the area of provision of knowledge on social issues. The 
study also found out that these activities embarked on by the NYSC has 
brought about the reduction on various seemingly social vices which 
has hitherto plagued the communities and mostly caused by the youths. 
The chapter conceptualised the terms knowledge, illiteracy, social 
issues, youth service and community development. The study also 
examines the NYSC community development service and its impact on 
provision of knowledge on social issues in their host communities. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND EDUCATION                                                            Rufai Aliyu  
110 
 
Bibliography  
 
 “Illiteracy” https://www.encyclopedia.com/social-sciences-and-law/ 
education/education-terms-and-concepts/illiteracy, Accessed 
21/3/21. 
“ABC” OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT SERVICE” NYSC, NDHQ Abuja, 
October 2014. 
 “community Development” https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Community 
_development. Accessed 21/3/21 
 “The United Nations Office of Disasters Risk Reduction” accessed 
8/3/2021 https://www.unisdr.org/we/inform/publications/ 
47804 
 “Youth Service” National Youth Commission. Retrieved 4/26/09. 
Abbas, F. (2012) NYSC: Service or Servitude. 
http://thenationonlineng.net/nysc-service-or-servitude/ 
Retrieved on the 18th of January 2016.  
Abdullahi A. & L. Cheri, “Analysis of the Implementation of Community 
Development Service Projects of National Youth Service Corps: 
Channels and Hindrances”. Ilorin Journal of Administration and 
Development, Vol. 2 (2) December, 2016 
Adedayo O, Nigeria: NYSC - Trudging On, 37 Years After. Daily 
Independent, 18 July, 2010 
Anthony N.E. etal, “An Overview of Emergency Preparedness, Response 
and Disaster Management In Nigeria: A Study Of Nema” World 
Educators Forum: An International Journal, Vol. 11 No. 1, 2019, 
285-306. 
Banji A.,  NYSC: End of the road? Nigerian Tribune, Sunday, July 8. 2012 
Chibozor Okeke, ex-Corps member 31+, Interviewed at U/romi, 
10/3/2021. 
Daily Trust (2011) NYSC and Its Challenges. 
http://www.dailytrust.com.ng/index.php?option=com 
_content&view=article&id=20103:nysc-and-itschallenges& 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Influence of the Activities of the National Youth Service Corps... 
111 
 
catid=17:editorial&Itemid=9 retrieved on the 16th of March 
2012: 1  
Enegwea G and G. Umoden, NYSC: Twenty years of National Service, 
(Abuja: Gabumo Pub, 1993). 10. 
Federal Government of Nigeria, National Youth Service Corps (2012) 
Historical Background of the NYSC. Retrieved on the 10th of 
March 2012. http:www.nysc.gov.ng/history2.php National 
Youth Service Corps (1999) (NYSC) Handbook. NYSC, Rivers 
State.  
Ingrassia P.L. et al. “Education and training initiatives for crisis 
management in the European Union: a web-based analysis of 
available programs”. Prehospital Disaster Medcine 2014; 29 (2): 
115-26. 
Lindsay B.R,  “Federal Emergency Management: A Brief Introduction”. 
Media Briefing by an Analyst in American National 
Government., 2012. 
National Youth Service Corps.Objectives of the Scheme. Retrieved from 
NYSC: http://www.nysc.gov.ng/objectives.php 
Olutola, A. Effectiveness of the NYSC-Sponsored Community Projects in 
Nigeria. Illorin Journal of Education, University of Illorin, Kwara 
State. 
http://www.unilorin.edu.ng/journals/education/ije/feb1981/
EFFECTIVE 
NESS%20OF%20THE%20NYSC%SPONSORED%20COMMUNIT
Y% 20PROJECTS%20IN%20NIGERIA.pdf retrieved on February 
24th, 2014.  
Onyeozu, A. M. Understanding Community Development. Davidstones 
Publishers Ltd, Port Harcourt: 20  
Oxford Advanced Learner‟s Dictionary (2000) Sixth Edition, 2009. 
Oxford University Press, Britain  
Oyebamiji, M. A. and Adekola, G. (2008) Fundamentals of Community 
Development in Nigeria. University of Port Harcourt Press, Port 
Harcourt.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND EDUCATION                                                            Rufai Aliyu  
112 
 
The Newswriter (2016) Causes of Poverty in Nigeria 
http://www.thenewswriterng.com/?p=12145 Retrieved on the 
18th of January 2016.1  F. Abbas, NYSC: Service or Servitude. 
http://thenationonlineng.net/nysc-service-or-servitude/ 
Retrieved on the 18th of January 2016. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Effect of National Youth Service Corps Teachers`... 
113 
 
 77 77    
    The Effect of National Youth Service Corps Teachers` 
Input on Students` Academic Performance in 
Secondary Schools in Nigeria 
 
 
Rufai Aliyu 
 
 
Introduction  
Nigeria among other nations globally is now paying attention to her 
youths. Recent socio-political problems of militancy from the southern 
Nigeria  and Boko Haram of the northern part of the country that led to 
bombing of strategic religious, economic and political edifices in the 
country has also claimed many lives beyond 1st of January, 2012. These 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                            Rufai Aliyu  
114 
 
events are threats to national unity.1  National Youth Service Corps 
(NYSC) as a scheme and the institution that administers it was 
launched in 1973 to serve as a veritable tool for the promotion of 
national unity. Subsequently, the program was launched and has since 
been strengthened and focused on so that it can achieve greater results 
in its implementation policy. The supervisory responsibility has 
remained with the Minister of Youth and Sports Development while the 
Nigerian youths who were drafted to NYSC programme are expected to 
be in-tune with the objectives and theme.  They are also to be re-tuned 
to specifically participate in community development activities during 
the service year. This ensures that NYSC participation includes 
challenges and leadership roles expected by jobs available after 
completion of service.  
 
The Concept of Youth 
Youth: The way a nation defines its youth is related to the objective 
conditions and realities that exist in the country. In Nigeria, persons 
between ages 18 to 35, who are citizens of the Federal Republic of 
Nigeria, are youths. This category represents the most active, the most 
volatile, and yet the most vulnerable segment of the population socio-
economically, emotionally, and in other respects.  
 
Youth Profile 
The 1991 Population Census puts Nigeria`s population at 88.9 million 
and at a growth rate of 2.8% per annum, the country`s projected 
population was around 115 million in the year 2000. However, the 
Country`s population is adjudged to be predominantly young, going by 
the statistical data which followed.2For instance, six out of every ten 
Nigerians are under 25 years of age and the total population of those 
between the ages of 15 and 34 was about 30 million in 1991; 
                                                           1B.A. Odufowokan, Practicum in Classroom Organization and Educational 
Management,  Bosun Publishers Ltd, Ogun-State, Nigeria. 2006. 2FGN, Social Development Policy for Nigeria. (1989). Lagos. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Effect of National Youth Service Corps Teachers`... 
115 
 
equivalent to one of every three Nigerians; and of these, 14 million 
(47%) were males while 16 million (53%) were females (about 38 
million), with the male/female ratio almost one to one. The 1991 
Census indicates that the total population of those defined as youth in 
the National Youth Policy and Strategic Plan is 22.5 million, or one out 
of every four Nigerians was estimated to be around 28 million in 2000. 
Subsequently, this represents over 70% of all youths and adolescents of 
the ages 15-34.3 
Indisputably, Forty-four percent (44%) of these are males while fifty-
six percent (56%) are females. About 17 million of these, or sixty-one 
(61%), live in the rural areas, while 11 million (or 39%) live in the 
urban areas which is defined as settlements with a population of over 
20,000. Of these who live in the rural areas, 62% are females while 
38% are males. In the urban areas, the gender distribution is fifty-fifty. 
National Youth Policy Plan and Strategic Plan of Action (2001) however 
summed-up youths` problem as being a vulnerable group with peculiar 
but un-met needs and aspirations.4 
Basically, a majority of the youth faces problems, the highlights of 
which include the following:    
•  Inadequate parental care;  
•  Non-availability of suitable sports and recreational facilities;  
•  Moral decadence in the society;  
•  Lack of appropriate role models;  
•  Religious fanaticism;  
•  Cult activities;  
•  Political manipulation of youth organizations;  
•  Unemployment and under-employment;  
•  Poor education;  
•  Breakdown of family values; and   
                                                           3FGN, Social Development Policy for Nigeria. (1989). Lagos. 4FGN, Social Development Policy for Nigeria. (1989). Lagos. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                            Rufai Aliyu  
116 
 
•  Indiscipline.5 
Accordingly, the National Youth Policy Plan and Strategic Plan of Action 
(2001) added mounting health and social welfare to the problems of 
the youths. For example, 43% and 53% of youths are sexually active. 
Surprisingly, most lack adequate information and services to promote 
and protect their reproductive health. There is also the rapid rate of 
increase of sexually transmitted diseases (STDS), HIV and AIDS. Youths 
are the most vulnerable to infection and to inadequate care and 
treatment. Indisputably, quite a good number of the youth are afflicted 
by all kinds of disabilities. The 1991 census data indicates that one of 
every three disabled persons is a young person. These range from the 
deaf, dumb, deaf and dumb, the blind and the crippled to the mentally 
disordered. As such, the existing rehabilitation and vocational training 
centers for the disabled are grossly inadequate and ill-equipped.6 
Equally important is the level of formal education available to the 
youths. Approximately 33% of all the youths have no formal education. 
Many of these youths without formal education are vulnerable to 
unemployment and underemployment as well as to socio-economic 
exploitations and deprivation. About 50% of all those in the age 
category 15 to 34 years are not gainfully employed.7 Most of those with 
some knowledge of gainful employment are involved in informal 
sector, low-level income activities e.g. street hawking of wares and 
commodities, either for their parents and/or relatives, or for other 
traders from whom they earn their meager commission or 
remuneration. Consequently, they are the pool from which youth labor 
is exploited and they are susceptible to crime, delinquency, and other 
vices. Hence, the range, extent and magnitude of the problems which 
confront the Nigerian youth require a committed and determined effort 
                                                           5FGN, Social Development Policy for Nigeria. (1989). Lagos. 6FGN, Social Development Policy for Nigeria. (1989). Lagos. 7 National Population Commission, (1991), Population Census of the Federal 
Republic of Nigeria. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Effect of National Youth Service Corps Teachers`... 
117 
 
on all part of the stakeholders in order to help them achieve their 
potentiality and make them appropriate partners in the task of national 
development. All these problems need to be urgently addressed so that 
they can be adequately empowered and enabled to play active roles as 
participants in the shaping of their own destiny as well as in the 
building and development of the Nigerian nation.8 
 
Issues Impinging on the Nigerian Youth  
It is the responsibility of the government and other stakeholders to 
constantly identify and address the needs and problems of the youth 
with the full participation of the youths themselves. They need to be 
mobilised, engaged, enlightened, conscientised, re-oriented, trained 
and involved.9Essentially, In spite of attempts by successive regimes to 
improve their lot, the condition of the Nigerian youth still leaves a lot to 
be desired. A lot more needs to be done to empower them, re-energise 
them and get them seriously involved with the task of nation building 
and socio-economic development. Relatively, past attempts at 
addressing the problems of the youth were characterised by much 
rhetoric but little terms of concrete action. Even the little that was 
being done lacked focus such that the result was marginal, if not 
counterproductive.  Equally important and of note is the nature of the 
socio-political and economic environment which had in the country 
imposed serious constraints in terms of meeting the needs and 
aspirations of the youth, indeed and historically, it can be said that 
                                                           8FGN, National Youth Development Policy (1999), Programs and Implementation 
Strategies. (Draft). 9E. Williams,G. Persaud, and T. Turner,  In Linda, K, Lemaster (Ed), International 
Society for  Educational Planning (ISEP), (George Washington University: 
Washington, DC, 2008) 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                            Rufai Aliyu  
118 
 
Nigerian youths have suffered more neglect than encouragement, and 
purposeful involvement by the government.10  
Contemporarily, they suffer from different kinds of socio-economic 
deprivations and afflictions, which have been intensified during the 
prolonged military rule and acute economic crisis. Thus, Government`s 
efforts, when made, have generally tended to be too little or too late. 
The institutional framework geared towards planning and 
implementation mechanisms of public policy on youth have been very 
weak, inefficient and ineffective, such that they hardly ever facilitated 
the actualisation of desired policy goals.11 Youth and Education in a 
developing country like Nigeria, Federal, State, Local government and 
members of the public – stakeholders have been given high priority. 
The main reason is that education is one instrument of change with 
which a country can achieve greatness socially, politically, 
economically, scientifically and technologically. In other words every 
nation strives hard to get maximum output from the minimum input. 
Essentially, agitation started in education two decades ago on the 
increasing rate of poor academic performance of students. However, in 
this millennium, getting the best from the lean input in the field of 
education has witnessed many innovations due to initiation and 
execution of many educational programs embarked upon by the 
Federal government of Nigeria.12  
For over two decades now, many people are of the opinion that 
Nigeria’s educational system is witnessing high increase in rate of 
                                                           10E. Williams, G. Persaud, and T. Turner,  In Linda, K, Lemaster (Ed), International 
Society for  Educational Planning (ISEP), (George Washington University: 
Washington, DC, 2008 11N. Otonto, Western Education and the Nigerian Cultural Background, Oxford 
University Press Reports of the Zonal Youth Summits, 2000. 12B.A. Odufowokan, School Plant Planning as Correlate of Students` “Academic 
Performance in South West Nigerian Secondary Schools”, International Journal of 
Business Administration, Vol 2, No 2, 2006, Pg. 41-47. doi: 10. 5430/ ijbav2n2 p41,  
http://dx . doi. Org / 10.5430/ijba v2n2p41. May 2006.    
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Effect of National Youth Service Corps Teachers`... 
119 
 
students` poor academic performance most especially at the secondary 
school level, invariably; this affects and militates against overall 
standard of education. There is this believe that education is not just 
decreasing but decreasing at an alarming rate.  In south west Nigeria 
secondary schools, students’ academic performance is poor generally 
going by existing records. There was persistent mass failure of students 
in the senior certificate examination [SSCE} conducted by the West 
African Examination Council {WAEC}.13  
Accordingly, Ajayi and Yusuf14 , asserted that the observed poor 
academic performance of the secondary school students in 
southwestern Nigeria may not be unconnected with seemingly poor 
school plant planning and teaching staff in the schools. Supporting 
these findings, Duncanson and Achilles15  affirmed that teachers and the 
physical environment {plant space} are two major tools that can bring 
about new outcomes. They quoted Summer who submitted that 
unintentionally and non-verbally, teachers expose their educational 
philosophy in the way they use space.   
Despite the huge investment on education by all tiers of Nigerian 
government, poor academic achievement in public examinations, 
particularly the West African School Certificate Examination (WASCE) 
now referred to as Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination 
(SSCE) has been an issue of major concern to parents, educators, school 
administrators, social scientists, government officials and the entire 
stakeholders in Nigerian education. In actual fact, poor academic 
achievement affects the nation socially, economically, politically, 
                                                           13B.A. Odufowokan, School Plant Planning as Correlate of Students… 14I.A. Ajayi, Unit cost of Secondary Education and Students` Academic 
Achievement in Ondo State (1991-1995). PhD Thesis, Ibadan: University of Ibadan. 
1999. 15E. Duncanson, and  C. Achilles, Education, In Linda K, Lemasters {Ed} the Journal 
of the International  Society for Educational Planning {ISEP} George Washington 
University, Washington D. C. 2008 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                            Rufai Aliyu  
120 
 
scientifically and technologically. As academic failures amount to `drop-
outs` in education industry and therefore constitute wastage to the 
nation`s economy.16  
Federal government with other tiers of government have made frantic 
efforts at investigating into this cankerworm that has eating deeply into 
the Nigeria’s` education system, this has taken different forms – 
ranging from political debate to sampling of individual`s opinions, 
setting–up of various level of panels and education summit and 
conferences to mention just a few. Nonetheless, some researchers have 
cited some possible causes of the problems. Akinboye17  attributes the 
causes of this failure to teachers less commitment to work, little or lack 
of parental influence on their children, constant changes to educational 
policies by the government in power and the inconsistencies among 
states with particular reference to the educational issues and problems.  
Barr,18 in contributing to qualities and characteristics of a good teacher 
itemised eleven of such qualities as follows:-  
• Resourcefulness, originality, creativeness, initiative, versatility, 
imagination, adventurousness,     progressiveness.  
• Intelligence, foresightedness, judgment, intellectual acuity, 
understanding, mental ability, intellectual capability, common 
sense.  
• Emotional stability, poise, self-control, steadfastness, sobriety, 
reserve, dignity, non-neuroticism, emotional maturity, 
                                                           16E. Duncanson, and  C. Achilles, Education 17 Akinboye (1982), Simple Research Methods for Dissertations, Project Research 
Papers. Less Shyraden,    
          Ibadan.  
Analytical Report at the National Level Abuja (1998) 18A.S. Barr,  Phi Delta Kappan, Vol, 39, NO 6. ``Characteristics of Successful 
Teachers`` March  
Commonwealth Secretariat (1996), Formulating and Implementing National Youth 
Policies. A Common Wealth, Handbook. London 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Effect of National Youth Service Corps Teachers`... 
121 
 
adjustment, constancy, loyalty, easy-going realism in facing life, 
not-exitable, stable integrated character.  
• Considerateness, appreciativeness, kindness, friendliness 
courteousness, sympathy, tact, good naturedness, helpfulness, 
patience, politeness, thoughtfulness, tolerance.  
• Buoyancy, optimism, enthusiasm, cheerfulness, carefreeness, 
vivaciousness, alertness, animation, idealism, articulateness, 
expensiveness, wit.  
• Objectivity, fairness, impartiality, open-mindedness, freedom 
from prejudice, sense of evidence.  
• Drive, physical vigor, energy, perseverance, ambition, industry, 
endurance, motivation, purposefulness, speediness, 
zealousness, quickness.  
• Dominance, self-confidence, forcefulness, decisiveness, 
courageousness, independence, intensiveness to social 
approval, self-sufficiency, determination, thick-skinedness, self-
reliance, self-assertiveness.  
• Attractiveness, dress, physique, freedom from physical defects, 
personal magnetism, neatness, cleanliness, positive personal 
charm, appearance.  
• Refinement, good taste, modesty, morality, conventionality, 
culture, polish, well-readiness.  
• Cooperativeness, friendliness, easy-goingness, geniality, 
generosity, adaptability, flexibility, responsiveness, 
truthfulness, warm-heartedness, unselfishness, charitableness. 
Corroborating the assertion above is Babatunde19  who extended 
teacher`s less commitment to work to the Primary School Teachers 
whom he said ` were the first to receive the students to a well laid 
                                                           19S. O.  Babatunde, Mass Failure in Public Schools Examination. Technology 
Oriented Solution. A   Paper delivered at the National Conference on Mass Failure 
in Public Examinations 21st – 25th April, 2008.    
University of Ibadan. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                            Rufai Aliyu  
122 
 
foundation.` He added that it is the carryover of primary school`s 
failure that resurfaced in the secondary schools. He reported further 
that the education witnessed during the political era was characterised 
by mass education system. As a result, inculcated wrong values into the 
children`s education adding wrong educational aims and objectives; 
there was wrong approaches to teaching and learning process, all 
culminated to improper education.  
Invariably, these wrong and improper education will lead to student`s 
poor academic achievement which in turn breed thuggery, lack of self-
discipline and self-respect, corruption, impetus to explore, lack of sense 
of values and inordinate ambition to make up for the loss in education.  
Asserting this fact is Okoye20  who blamed the situation upon poor 
motivation of students. All of these have shown different moves, 
concerns and reasons for our secondary school students’ poor 
academic performance.  
Emphatically, teachers have had tremendous impact on moral and 
disposition to duties and subsequently these affect their effectiveness 
and productivity. Accordingly, Wiles21 observed that good interpersonal 
relationships, emotional adjustment and morale are contagious in any 
community like educational setting. Hence, the provision of good and 
educationally qualified teachers, school instructional plant by the 
ministry of education and its agencies and subsequent supervision by 
the principals and teachers of schools will help provide good, efficient 
and conducive teaching and learning environment for both students 
and teachers which also provide needed respects, dignity for teachers 
and self-realisation and security for students in the long-run. 
   
                                                           20S. O.  Babatunde, Mass Failure in Public Schools Examination. Technology 
Oriented Solution. A   Paper delivered at the National Conference on Mass Failure 
in Public Examinations 21st – 25th April, 2008.    
University of Ibadan. 21A.P. Wiles,  “Supervision for Better Schools”, Prentice Hall Inc, New Jersey. 2013 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Effect of National Youth Service Corps Teachers`... 
123 
 
Consentingly, the objectives of education and that of the school in 
particular will not be achieved if there is unqualified school staff in 
place. Students and teachers do not enjoy teaching and learning 
respectively, while the expected supervision and monitoring from the 
principal is hindered, irrespective of the leadership style he possesses. 
Corroborating the above, Odufowokan22 affirms education`s capital 
intensive nature to diverse curriculum design, teachers, students, 
textbooks, teaching resources, and infrastructural facilities of which 
sound teaching staff is related. This is a fact that the huge investment 
and expenses in education will be justified only if the stated goals and 
objectives are achieved in the long-run.   
 
Impact of National Youth Service Corps Teachers` Input on 
Students` Academic Performance In Secondary Schools In Nigeria 
Studies have shown that the above characteristic of a qualified teacher 
who has the quality of good teaching are mostly found among the 
graduate youth Corps members, mostly those who are sent to impart 
their skills on secondary school students nationwide. It is on record 
that Corps members sent to secondary schools are in most 
communities the pioneers of educative initiatives which include the 
opening of educative clubs among the students associations. For 
instance the fire safety clubs, hygiene clubs among others. But most 
importantly, their imprints on the student’s academic output are 
remarkable.23 
Furthermore, the youth Corps members have undergone series of 
trainings in the university specifically those with bias in educational 
courses in the university and they turn out to be good or even excellent 
                                                           22B.A. Odufowokan, School Plant Planning as Correlate of Students` “Academic 
Performance in South West Nigerian Secondary Schools”, International Journal of 
Business Administration, Vol 2, No 2, 2006, Pg. 41-47. doi: 10. 5430/ ijbav2n2 p41,  
http://dx . doi. Org / 10.5430/ijba v2n2p41. May 2006.    23Abubakar Yunus, 45+, NYSC official, Interviewed at the NYSC SECRETARIAT 
Gwadangwaji Kebbi State. 15/03/2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                            Rufai Aliyu  
124 
 
tutors. It has been recorded that over 80 percent of youth Corps 
members who served in various states of the federation are mostly 
posted to secondary schools to carry out their primary responsibility of 
serving their fatherland through the gainful impact of knowledge on 
students of these schools especially those in the final years of the 
secondary schools, about leaving for tertiary level of education i.e the 
university.24 
 
Conclusion 
The study revealed that the level of National Youth Corps teachers’ 
input in secondary schools in Nigeria is high. This high level might be 
connected with the adage which says that two good heads are better 
than one. They are young and vibrant teachers who just graduated 
from the universities and are ready to make impact in their host 
communities. These apart, thorough supervision, control and 
monitoring of the Corps members directly by their respective 
cooperating teachers, vice-principals and principals of schools they are 
posted to, as well as various educational services unit at the local 
government will sustain this high level of influence.  
There is no doubt that the relatively high level of their influence in 
secondary schools enhanced better teaching and learning process and 
also facilitates better academic performance. Supporting this, Ajayi25 
writes that academic performance of students is greatly enhanced 
when teachers put in their best and requirements into teaching and 
learning process.  He believes that the level of academic performance is 
directly connected with the level of other factors such as motivation of 
teachers through regular payment of salaries, in-service training and 
student’s commitment to their study.  
                                                           24 Abubakar Ishaq, 40+ Civil Servant, Interviewed at Barnawa Kaduna 01/03/2021. 25I.A. Ajayi, Unit cost of Secondary Education and Students` Academic 
Achievement in Ondo State (1991-1995). (PhD Thesis, Ibadan: University of 
Ibadan). 1999. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Effect of National Youth Service Corps Teachers`... 
125 
 
Also, the NYSC Corps member’s work habit, general ability, 
resourcefulness, personal qualities and mental stability constantly 
maintained and enhance teaching and learning, thereby creating better 
students` academic achievement.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                            Rufai Aliyu  
126 
 
Bibliography 
 
Akinboye, Simple Research Methods for Dissertations, Project Research 
Papers. Less Shyraden,  Ibadan. Analytical Report at the 
National Level Abuja (1998)  
 Ayedun, C.A. Fundamentals of Educational Administration, Lagos: 
Loyal Printers.  2005, Pg. 92.  
Ajayi, I. A, Unit cost of Secondary Education and Students` Academic 
Achievement in Ondo State (1991-1995). PhD Thesis, Ibadan: 
University of Ibadan.  
Akinbuiro, I. M., Joshua, M. T., Self-concept, Attitude and Achievement of 
Secondary      
Babatunde, S. O. (1986), Mass Failure in Public Schools Examination. 
Technology Oriented Solution. A   Paper delivered at the 
National Conference on Mass Failure in Public Examinations 
21st – 25th April,   University of Ibadan.  
Barr, A. S. (1958), Phi Delta Kappan, Vol, 39, NO 6. ``Characteristics of 
Successful Teachers`` March Commonwealth Secretariat 
(1996), Formulating and Implementing National Youth Policies. 
A Common Wealth, Handbook. London  
Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (1999).   
Dada, A. Mass Failure in Public Examinations: Causes and Problems; 
Ibadan; Heinemann Educational Books, Nigeria Ltd. 1981 
Duncanson, E., Achilles, C, In Linda K, Lemasters {Ed} the Journal of the 
International 
Society for Educational Planning {ISEP} George Washington University, 
Washington D. C 2008 
Enaesator, O. Productivity trends in Secondary Education in Anambra 
State of Nigeria. [1980-1990} in FVM, Onitsha Arinze {Ed}: 
Readings in Nigeria Secondary Education, Nigeria:  Hornbill 
Publishers Ltd.  
 Federal Government of Nigeria (2001), National Youth Policy Plan and 
Strategic Plan of Action, (Feb)  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Effect of National Youth Service Corps Teachers`... 
127 
 
FGN, National Youth Development Policy (1999), Programs and 
Implementation Strategies. (Draft)  
 FGN, National Youth Policy for Nigeria. (1983) Lagos .  
 FGN, Social Development Policy for Nigeria. (1989). Lagos.  
 Ijaduola, K.O. (2007), Management Motivational Strategies and 
Teachers` Task Performance in Secondary Schools in Ogun-
State. Unpublished Doctoral Thesis, Department of 
EducationaManagement, University of Ibadan.  
Joel, B.M. (2003), Effectiveness of Administrative Working Condition 
Relationship. Education Today, Vol 2. No 2.  
Lloyd, B.K. (2004), Dimension of Teachers Effectiveness` A Student 
Perspective. The Journal of Experimental Education, Vol 21, Pp 
2-11.  
Mariden, M. (2005), In Linda, K, Lemaster (Ed), International Society 
for Educational Planning (ISEP),  George Washington 
University: Washington, D.C.  
National Population Commission, (1991), Population Census of the 
Federal Republic of Nigeria.  
Nwagwu, N.A. (1978), Primary School Administration: Lagos, 
Macmillian Nigeria Publishers Limited.55-56.  
Odufowokan, B.A. (2006), Practicum in Classroom Organization and 
Educational Management,  Bosun Publishers Ltd, Ogun-State, 
Nigeria.  
Odufowokan, B.A. (2011), Organizational and Management Problems 
Confronting Teaching and Learning in Nigerian Secondary 
Schools in the Globalization Era. Journal of Management and 
Strategy, Vol 2, No 2, Sciedu Press, Ontario, Toronto, Canada. Pg. 
78-81. doi : 10 . 5430/jmsv2n2 p78, http://dx .doi. Org / 
10.5430/jms v2n2p78. June  
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                     Esther Ukile Akaa 
128 
 
 88 88    
    NYSC and the Girl Child Education 
 
 
Esther Ukile Akaa 
 
 
Introduction 
The major focus of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGS) is to 
promote gender equality and empowerment through the education of   
women who will in turn educate their children, take care of their 
families and to also provide for their children. It has also been on how 
the society can address the major challenges confronting the girl- child 
in the family and to uplift her to a greater level. Thus, the education of 
the girl- child should be the concern of both families, individuals, Non-
Governmental Organisations (NGOs) and government at all levels. 
Unfortunately, the challenges of the girl- child seem to have taken 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the Girl Child Education 
129 
 
another twist as she is faced with various forms of gender based 
Violence with rape topping the chart,1 although several efforts have 
been made to scale down some of these forms of violence committed 
against women, including the enactment of laws with stiff punishment 
for perpetrators of such acts. In Nigeria, there have been several 
legislations enacted against perpetrators of rape but the 
implementation of such laws has become a major challenge. However, 
it is on record that, in 1995 at the World Conference of Women in 
Beijing, China, a declaration platform for an action that created the 
blueprint for advancing the rights of not only women but girls in 
general was unanimously adopted. 
It is against this background that this paper shall attempt to discuss the 
analysis of the challenges confronting the girl –child in attaining 
education in Nigeria. We shall discuss various contributions of 
Individuals,  NGOs and government at all levels towards the education 
of the girl- child. We shall then discuss of the National Youth Service 
Corps (NYSC ) scheme in Nigeria and analyze the impacts of the scheme 
in promoting the girl –child education .The last segment of the paper 
would be an analysis of the prospects of the NYSC Scheme in promoting 
the girl – child education in Nigeria and the way forward.   
 
Conceptual clarification 
In every discussion, there is the need to identify and analyse some basic 
concepts on the subject matter. In this paper some important concepts 
such as girl-child, education and National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) 
shall be clarified in order to enlighten us more on the clear 
understanding of the article. 
 
 
                                                           1 F. Para-Mallam, Gender-Based Violence in Nigeria: A Comparative Review of 
Violence Affecting Women and Girls in Selected States. (2018). 
10.13140/RG.2.2.34832.10249. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                     Esther Ukile Akaa 
130 
 
Girl – Child  
A girl-child is a biological female offspring from birth to eighteen (18) 
years.2This refers to the age before the child becomes an adult .The 
development that occurs within this age covers from early childhood 
between ages 0-5 years. This is mostly the period the child attends the 
crèche and nursery school. The child then proceeds to primary school 
between 6-12 years and secondary school at the ages of 12- 18 years.3 
However, at 18, the child is at puberty stage and under the care and 
protection of parents or guardians. At this stage of the child’s infancy, 
childhood and late adolescence, it is crucial for a girl-child to be 
protected and given proper attention. It is a stage where her 
personality and character are built and thus adequate attention should 
be given in order to build her behaviours physically, mentally, socially, 
spiritually and emotionally. The stage prepares her to the next, which is 
the adult age. 
 
On December 19, 2011, United Nation General Assembly adopted 
Resolution 66/170 declared on October 11 as the international Day of 
the Girl child to recognise girls’ right and the unique challenges girls 
face around the world4. This resolution focuses on the need to address 
the challenges of young girls and promote them through empowerment 
and provision of their basic human skills for survival. The most 
important rights of adolescent girls are the right to safe education and 
healthcare not only during the early stage of their lives but also as they 
grow into mature women. Girls have the potentials to change the world 
both as girls of today and as tomorrow’s workers, mothers, 
                                                           2 G. Offorma , Girl-Child Education in Africa , Keynote Address presented at the 
federation of University womwne of Africa ,16th – 19 July ,2019 ,  held in Lagos , 
PDF , retrieved at researchgate.neton Tuesday, 9th  Feb , 2021. 3 Ibid 4 International Day of the Girl Child , retrieved on www.un.org, Tuesday ,9th 
February , 2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the Girl Child Education 
131 
 
entreprenueurs mentors, household heads and political leaders.5  To 
achieve this, there is need for mentorship as she is dependent on the 
significant others at this formative stage, those who the child would 
model her behaviour through observation and imitation of their life 
styles. 
 
Education 
Education is the process of providing avenue to an inexperienced 
person to help him/ her develop physically, mentally, socially, 
emotionally, spiritually, politically and economically6. This means the 
process of acquiring adequate knowledge, skills, attitudes and values 
that affect an individual. The national Policy on education in Nigeria 
was launched in 19777. This policy on education is aimed at shaping 
individuals towards self realization for the development of the nation. 
Thus to achieve its aim of social, cultural, economic, scientific, political 
and technological development, the policy in 1985 broaden its horizon 
to include free primary education for pupils among other provisions. 
Until 1984, the structure of education was 6 years of primary school, 5 
to 7 years of post primary schools (secondary and teacher training 
college) and 4 to 6 years of tertiary education (college of education, 
polytechnic, college of Technology and university education. From 
1985, the structure of the Nigerian education was classified into the 
pre-primary or kindergarten education (2 to 3 years) for the children of 
ages 3 to 5 years. The primary school   became   6 years for children of 
ages 6 to 11 years and the post  primary education was divided into 3 
two halves , (3 year of junior secondary school and 3 years of senior 
secondary school ) as well 4 to 6 years for tertiary education level . This 
is called the 6 – 3- 3- 4 system, However , the regime of former 
                                                           5 International Day of the Girl Child , 2021. 6 G.Offorma , Girl –Child Education in Africa,1.  7 L.A Amaghionyeodiwe  and T.S Osinubi . The Nigeria Educational system and 
Returns to Education , international journal of Applied Econometrics and 
quantitative studies , vol, 3-1, EAAEDS , 2006. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                     Esther Ukile Akaa 
132 
 
president of Nigeria, Olusegun Obasanjo in 1999, launched a new 
educational scheme known as the Universal Basic Education Scheme 
which was aimed at eradicating illiteracy. 
 
Background to the Girl Child Education in Nigeria 
Education has been the backbone of development in most countries of 
the world. Quality education propels both the economic, political and 
social emancipation of a nation. Thus the provision of quality education 
should be a nation's priority in order to promote quality sustenance so 
as to enable the educational system to be well developed and effective. 
In Nigeria, there are challenges confronting the educational system 
especially the girl-child education in the country. In societies where 
culture, religion, poverty, among others, impair the education of a girl 
child, it becomes difficult for such a child to attain quality education.  
Ugbem and IKwuba stated that: Culture relegated women to the 
background where they cannot be active participants in issues that 
concern their lives8. This has implication on the educational attainment 
of the girl child as certain culture in Nigeria limits her from enrolling 
into school.  
Zaigi also asserted that: In Nigeria, women are not given adequate 
attention in the area of education except in recent times, parents did 
not send their daughters to school. Instead, it was mainly male children 
that were sent to school9. Thus, the girl child is being discriminated due 
to cultural practices. A significant number of them do not go to school 
since they are obliged to abandon their studies to help their mothers 
                                                           8 Comfort Erika Ugbem and Agnes Abganugo IKwuba, "Cultural views of 
womanhood in  Igede Society of North Central Nigeria  in  Okpeh Ochayi Okpeh  
and Elijah Ikpanor( eds),  in Themes on women Studies in Africa :Perspectives from 
Nigeria, Donafrique Publishers , 2015, 314. 9 Zaigi Ngharen Amin, Violence Against Women in Nigeria , in Okpeh Ochayi Okpeh  
and Elijah Ikpanor( eds),  in Themes on women Studies in Africa :Perspectives from 
Nigeria, Donafrique Publishers , 2015, 375 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the Girl Child Education 
133 
 
with household chores.  Others  are  employed  as  house  girls  or  
house  helpers  in  urban agglomerations where  they serve  as  
babysitters10. This exposes the girl-child to all forms of Gender Based 
Violence including indecent assault, sexual harassment and 
psychological violence, among others. This is to the fact that most 
Nigerian cultural practices see women as wives and so should not be 
educated. It is common to hear people saying things like “women’s 
education ends in the kitchen"11. It is therefore important to state that 
such backward cultures have served as an impediment to the 
attainment of the girl child education in Nigeria. 
According to oral account, the challenges of the girl -child are 
overwhelming12. It is the girl child that bears the burden of house 
chores so much that she lack the ability to go to school and even 
complete her education. Her right living as a child in terms of growing 
up is affected because most times rather than being in school, she is 
saddled with house chores and responsibilities that are even  above 
her. Sometimes she is used as child slave and labour and when it the 
time for who should drop out of school, it is the girl child especially 
when there is no one to care for them in the family. She ends up getting 
married before she is 18 in some communities13. This means that with 
her withdrawal from school, she begins to face sexual exploitation, 
sexual harassment and sexual molestation by family members or 
relatives. The girl-child is deeply affected by the patriarchal nature of 
the African society which believes in the supremacy of men and boys; a 
                                                           10 Emeka Daniel  Oruonye , The challenges of Girl - Child Education to attainment 
of the miilenenium Development Goals in Taraba State  , Nigeria, Taraba State 
University Journal of Arts and Social Sciences  Vol . 2 ( 1)  September 2021, 239- 
249. 11 Zaigi Ngharen Amin, Violence Against Women in Nigeria, 374 – 375. 12 Nkechi Illochi ,  Omekedo, 40 + Manager,  Women Rights , ActionAid Nigeria , 
interviewed  in Abuja on 25/ 02/ 2021. 13 Nkechi Illochi Omekedo, 40+,Manager,  Women Rights , ActionAid Nigeria , 
intervieded in Abuja on 25/ 02/ 2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                     Esther Ukile Akaa 
134 
 
society where a woman can only think but cannot be heard. The girl-
child living in the same society with such a cultural background  faces a 
lot of difficulties14.  
The girl- child is also faced with the challenge of religion and beliefs 
system. Religious myths and interpretations are used in the 
justification why the girl- child should not be educated. Often times the 
children are given away to old men perhaps older than their 
grandparents.15 This act is mostly based on religious reasons including 
Ignorance, Poverty and inhumanity. Children who are denied education 
and forced into marriage because of cultural or religious reasons would 
live the rest of their lives below potential16. Thus, the girl child is being 
discriminated due to religious and cultural practices which may limit 
her potentiality of becoming great in the society. 
 
Background to Contribution towards Girl-Child Education 
Education has always played an important role in the socio-economic 
and cultural development of the society. Hence there exist a high 
positive correlation between the level of educational attainment and 
the economic standards of community life17. . In Nigeria, governments 
at all levels have continued to design programmes of development 
particularly on educational policies. Although most of the aim and 
objectives of these policies are not met successfully. Also, experiences 
have shown that very large number of children especially girls do not 
acquire basic education and even those who got admitted in previous 
years drop-out after continuing for few years. However, previous 
governments have continued to implement programmes to encourage 
                                                           14 Nkechi Illochi Omekedo, 40+ Manager,  Women Rights , ActionAid Nigeria , 
intervieded in Abuja on 25/ 02/ 2021. 15 Zaigi Ngharen Amin, Violence Against Women in Nigeria, 375. 16 Zaigi Ngharen Amin, Violence Against Women in Nigeria, 377 17 B.S Yadav and Humayun Masood , Socio Economic profile of child Labour , Agree 
Publishers , New Delhi , 2008, 102. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the Girl Child Education 
135 
 
education especially the girl - child due to series of advocacies on the 
girl- child development. 
At the federal government level, literacy programmes have been given 
priority they deserve. This can be seen in the quality of teachers with 
qualified teaching certificates, relevant teaching programmes, adequate 
learning materials and facilities to encourage the teaching of learning at 
the federal government level. Nasasaiah posits that, If we truly believe 
in lifelong learning, and if we seriously believe in redressing the 
balance of learning in our societies, then, we should seek to develop in 
every country an open and enabling system of education, breaking with 
past concepts of education as something which happens to people 
between the ages of six and twenty and which only the privileged few 
were to access. Synergy has to be created between formal and non - 
formal education programmes18. This means that the efforts of 
government in designing educational programmes or policies should 
include all types of learning whether they take place in school or at 
home. The federal government has developed capacities of teachers as 
measures aimed at increasing efficiency of education at all levels. As 
part of its effort, special federal government schools as well as unity 
schools are established for girls across the states and curriculums are 
designed to meet the educational needs of girls to encourage and 
promote the girl-child education. 
Also various state governments are complementing the efforts of the 
federal government to improve the education of a girl- child. In an oral 
Interview with the Benue State Commissioner for Education, Prof. 
Dennis Ityavyar, he maintained that the attitude of parents and 
guardians towards the education of the girl - child has improved 
greatly19.  The establishment of quite a number of government girls 
                                                           18 M . Lakshmi Nasasaiah , Child Labour and Education , Discovery Publishing 
House , New Delhi , 2009, 24 19 Dennis Ityavyar, 50  +, interviewed in Makurdi, Makurdi LGA, 21/ 02 / 2021 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                     Esther Ukile Akaa 
136 
 
schools, renovation and the provision of learning materials in the state 
are efforts geared towards promoting the girl- child education. The 
state has special schools for girls. Government Girls Secondary School 
Makurdi, recently renovated, has qualified teachers. The government 
also plans to build hostels so that there will be a boarding school in 
Gwer Local Government Area of Benue State instead of a day school. 
Another school is the Government Model Girls Secondary School in 
Aliade, Gwer Local Government Area which is also well renovated. The 
governor of Benue state, Samuel Ortom, has also built a fence around 
girl’s schools in the state to secure the girls and protect them from 
Insecurity20. In terms of quality of teaching, the schools have qualified 
teachers and students from all parts of Northern Nigeria are admitted 
into the schools on exchange programme. The state has also supplied 
the schools with new chairs and tables for the comfort of the girls. 
Apart from the efforts made, the state government has embarked on 
sensitisation visits and campaign to encourage parents to allow their 
children to register into the schools.   
The missionaries on their part established several schools, which are 
for girls across the various states of the federation. In Benue State, such 
schools include; St Winifred Girls Secondary School, Ihugh , Queen of 
the Rosary secondary school, Gboko, and Divine Love Girls Secondary 
School, Katsina Ala21. Thus, the efforts towards educating the girl child 
have yielded much results in the state. However, effort must be made to 
take the education of the girl-child to rural area where there are 
challenges of early marriage. Government must provide succour by 
encouraging some people to live in such areas. Government must also 
provide scholarships to the students to encourage their performances 
and improve their   access to education. 
                                                           20 Dennis Ityavyar interviewed in Makurdi LGA 21/ 02/ 2021 21 Dennis Ityavyar , interviewed in Makurdi LGA on 24/ 02 / 2021 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the Girl Child Education 
137 
 
The Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) are not left out on the 
issue of girl-child education. Most of them have identified and 
recognised the challenges of the girl-child in Nigeria and are working 
towards breaking barriers to girl-child education. An example of such 
Organisations is Action Aid Nigeria, an organisation that works with 
poor and excluded communities to promote the rights of people living 
in Poverty and to promote women in leadership positions. 
The organisation has done extensive work on the girl Child education. 
There are many projects that have been initiated in the past by Action 
Aid Nigeria and some are still ongoing in ensuring that girls stay in 
school. They include, Commonwealth Education Fund, Transforming 
Education for Girls in Nigeria and Tanzania, Enhancing Girls Basic 
Education in Kebbi, Promoting Girls Enrolment and Retention in 
School, AccessPro and Breaking Barriers Project22. The current project 
which is the  breaking barriers project is aimed at  ensuring  that girls 
stay in school and concentrate and it is being implemented in Sokoto  
and Lagos  states to promote girl - child education. 
At the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, Action Aid Nigeria provided 
transistor radios to school children so that they can learn through it on 
how to protect themselves from the virus. There was alot of tension 
and the possibility of girls dropping out of school or getting pregnant 
during COVID-19 pandemic. The transistor Radio was provided so that 
they can learn during the COVID-19 period. Also within the women's 
rights programme, there are our development partners that are 
working on specialised form of learning where girls stay in school to 
study and acquire knowledge. They provide economic empowerment 
to mothers to make sure that they pay their school fees and provide 
trainings in school clubs, targeting girls and teaching them on how to 
                                                           22 Nkechi Illochi Omekedo,40+ Manger , Women's Rights , ActionAid Nigeria, 
Interviewed in Abuja on 26/ 02/ 2021 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                     Esther Ukile Akaa 
138 
 
maintain hygiene, providing hygiene services such as toilets, water, 
reading tables and books to girls in school to encourage them. 
 
NYSC and the Girl- Child Education in Nigeria 
The Nigeria child’s right Act recognises the rights of children, restores 
their confidence and self-esteem and improves their status23. The 
national legislature on its part passed the Child Rights Act to help 
protect the rights of both male and female children. However the law 
appears to have differing levels of acceptance and implementation 
among Nigerian states24. The law had little true effect on child's rights 
across Nigeria due to lack of implementation among other states. The 
challenge is that,  despite the passage  of the  Child Rights Act in 2003, 
there is no provision by the federal government to truly  enforce the act 
in order to truly protect children especially the girl-child against 
abusive conditions such as early marriage , female mutilation , harmful 
traditional practices which affect the girl- child  both psychological and 
health wise. The challenge in the implementation of the Act has become 
a thing of concern for many NGOs. Some cultural and religious beliefs 
practised particularly in the Northern part of the country do not 
recognise the rights of women25. Most of these communities do not 
train the girl- child because they believe that training her is a waste of 
time since she will one day get married.  
However, in Nasarawa state, stakeholders and educationalists have 
created awareness among the people to enable them understand the 
importance of training a girl child. The establishment of the NYSC 
Scheme has in no small measure contributed to the education of the 
girl-child and attention she has since begun to receive. There are efforts 
                                                           23 Nigeria Child's right www.lawyale.edu/ rcw/jurisdictions/ afw/ retrieved on 28/ 
02/ 2021. 24 Nigeria Child's right www.lawyale.edu/ rcw/jurisdictions/ afw/ retrieved on 28/ 
02/ 2021. 25 Samuel Tsebe, Chairman,  House Committee on Womens Affairs, Nasarawa 
State House of Assembly, interviewed in Lafia, on 27/ 02/ 2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the Girl Child Education 
139 
 
made by NYSC to educate the public on the need to send the girl-child 
to school. 
In Nasarawa state, there are no standing laws yet that seek to protect 
the educational right of the girl-child but there are agitations to make 
their education compulsory26. The state government started free 
education during the first civilian governor of the state, Abdullahi 
Adamu, and the action has since been replicated by his successors27. 
The essence is to encourage parents who find it difficult to send their 
girl children to school and gain knowledge free of charge.  
 
The Impact of NYSC in Promoting Girl -child Education in Nigeria 
The NYSC programme over the years has impacted positively on 
communities through regular and effective distribution of skilled 
manpower, steady breaking of social and cultural barriers as well as 
the building of friendly bridges across ethno-linguistic boundaries. The 
programme has promoted values, skills and patriotism among youths. 
The NYSC programme has helped in the educational development of 
the country, especially from Junior secondary to tertiary levels28. The 
scheme is promoting the girl- child education through sensitisation 
programmes and campaign often organised by members of the scheme 
in collaboration with NGOs. This is achieved through the various 
community development programmes of the scheme.  The traditional 
community development programme which was introduced in 1976/ 
1977 service year has helped a lot in the promotion of learning, 
                                                           26 Samuel Tsebe, Chairman,  House Committee on womens Affairs, Nasarawa State 
House of Assembly, interviewed in Lafia, on 27/ 02/ 2021 27 Samuel Tsebe, Chairman,  House Committee on womens Affairs, Nasarawa State 
House of Assembly, interviewed in Lafia, on 27/ 02/ 2021 28 A.A Aba , Nigerian Politics 1999- 2009; Images from Chinua Achebe's Mirror, in 
Okafor Chuwuemka , Ani Johnmark K - The National Youth Service Corps 
Programme and Growing Security Threats in Nigeria, Africa's Public Service 
Delivery and Performance Review, Africa's Development watch, 152. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                     Esther Ukile Akaa 
140 
 
tourism, healthcare and agricultural development29.  Corps Members 
are grouped into different Community Development Services (CDS) to 
look out for areas where they could make individual impact in the 
community. In this regard, CDS groups are formed to promote the 
education of the girl-child. Also, the construction of projects like 
building of toilets, bridges and classrooms for schools to encourage 
teaching and learning are done by CDS groups. Others include the 
establishment of libraries, extramural classes, charity work, vocational 
training for empowerment of unemployed youths, among others. 
Sometimes the projects may require huge financial support and Corps 
Members take the responsibility of sourcing for funds from other 
organisations after getting approval from the management of NYSC. 
Examples of CDS groups that promote the fundamental human rights of 
individuals include, Corps Legal Aid Scheme (CLAS) which carries out 
sensitisation of the public on fundamental human rights of citizens.  
They also hold public lectures and create awareness on fundamental 
human rights including awareness on education of the girl-child.  
Secondly the Education Development Group (Mass literacy, Adult 
Education, Extra Murals, ICT) enhances the education standard of the 
host community. This also include career guidance and Counselling for 
students as well as campaign against illiteracy. These campaigns and 
awareness creation has changed the negative attitude of parents or 
guardians towards the education of the girl-child. Many parents are 
beginning to realise the importance of girl-child education30. Also 
guidance and counselling section by corps members deployed to 
schools assisted in career choices of students, especially girls, thereby 
helping in improving the education of the girl -child. 
 
                                                           29 Okafor Chuwuemka  and Ani Johnmark K - The National Youth Service Corps, 
152. 30 Elizabeth Tsavande ,  55 , Principal , Government Girls College , Makurdi, 
Interviewed in Makurdi on 22/ 02 / 2021 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the Girl Child Education 
141 
 
Another impact can be seen in the area of awards of female corp 
members who performed exceedingly during service years. This act by 
both the federal and state governments as well as corporate 
Organisations have encouraged parents who hitherto had negative 
attitude towards the education of the girl-child to change their 
attitudes31. The awards are won by best group or personal CDS project 
that impacts on the lives of citizens of the community where the project 
is implemented. This has a way of encouraging people to do more 
especially in the education of their wards. 
 
The Prospects of NYSC in the Promotion of Girl-Child Education in 
Nigeria  
For NYSC to effectively promote the girl- child education, there must be 
collaboration between government at all levels  and the private sector 
for sustainability of the NYSC Programmes that seek to promote girl 
Child education. This is because the programme is just for a year and 
sustaining the initiatives of the scheme becomes key for desired results. 
Thus the collaboration between various stakeholders such as 
government at all levels, communities, International Organisations and 
NGOs should  be the primary focus of the scheme32. This collaboration 
would help in establishing a strong mechanism that will serve as a 
follow-up to projects implemented by the scheme. To this end, NYSC 
should consistently work with the National Orientation Agency (NOA) 
to raise awareness, provide timely and credible feedback on project 
initiated by the scheme. There should also be a workable framework 
for educating, orientating and indoctrinating Nigerians towards 
attitudes, values and culture which project the right of the girl Child to 
education. Also the domestication of NYSC  projects with Organisations 
that are closer to the projects area will in no small measure promote 
                                                           31 Elizabeth Tsavande, 55, Principal, Government Girls College , Makurdi, 
Interviewed in Makurdi on 22/02/2021 32 Anicetus Atakpu, 39, Human right activist , interviewed in Lafia LGA, on 26/ 02/ 
2021 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                     Esther Ukile Akaa 
142 
 
girl-child education. This will encourage easy grassroots 
implementation of projects and record successes. 
The NYSC, Government and school management bodies should also 
regularly maintain school facilities, such as school libraries , girls safe 
spaces , classroom blocks provided by CDS groups for the purpose of 
promoting the girl- child education and education for all. This can be 
done through collaboration with the state ministry of Education and 
other educational boards such as the State Universal Basic Education( 
SUBEB) and local educational authorities. 
Furthermore, the NYSC Scheme should work in synergy with both 
traditional and religious institutions in ensuring that the aspects of 
Culture and religious myths and interpretations that are used in the 
justification why the girl-child should not be educated are eliminated. 
This is because cultural and religious interpretations serve as 
impediments to the education of the girl child, thus the need for 
awareness creation in churches, mosques and in communities across 
the states of the federation. 
The scheme should also work with the media  as a tool in  promoting 
girl-child education. The media are agents of social change which can 
be used in creating awareness about girl-child education and drawing 
government’s attention to the need for them to prioritise the 
educational needs of the girl child33. It therefore recommended that the 
NYSC should work in collaboration with the media on  the  need to 
make laws that will prohibit early marriage and promote girl Child 
education. The media reports issues of gender based violence and 
infringement on the fundamental human rights of individuals, 
especially the girl-child34. Thus, the NYSC Scheme should work hand in 
hand with the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) and the Nigeria 
                                                           33 Isaac Ukpoju , Journalist , Interviewed in Lafia LGA, on 27/ 02/ 2021 34Ibid 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the Girl Child Education 
143 
 
Association of Women Journalists (NAWOJ) and endeavour to pay 
serious attention to campaigns that will promote girl-child education.  
 
Conclusion 
To eradicate and correct some of these challenges facing the  education 
of the girl in Nigeria, the federal and state government, policy makers in 
education, International Organisations, NGOs and other relevant 
stakeholders  must work in synergy with the NYSC Scheme in order for 
the girl-child to be given her rights. There must be special 
consideration that must be given to Nigeria educational institutions in 
order to achieve the stated goals of education in national policy on 
education. Government at all levels should be provided the less 
privileged in the society with materials such as  uniform curriculum, 
adequate school equipments and facilities for comprehension to enable 
them send their girl children to school. The federal government, state 
and non-governmental organisations should see education as the way 
forward for societal growth and development. Thus, they should always 
be ready to renovate dilapidated facilities and refurbish broken roof of 
schools. The school programmes should meet the needs of the children 
and also prepare them to be a useful citizen in the society. Also 
education in Nigeria should not be allowed for government alone to 
manage but private sectors and other non-governmental bodies like 
NGOs should be incorporated. At all levels of government, there should 
be adequate funding for proper management of educational institutions 
in Nigeria. Finally, the NYSC scheme must ensure sustainability of their 
programmes aimed at promoting the girl-child education in order to 
achieve its aims and objectives. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                     Esther Ukile Akaa 
144 
 
Bibliography 
 
Interviews  
Anicetus Atakpu, 39, Human right activist , interviewed in Lafia LGA, on 
26/ 02/ 2021 
Dennis Ityavyar, 50  +, interviewed in Makurdi, Makurdi LGA, 21/ 02 / 
2021 
Elizabeth Tsavande, 55, Principal, Government Girls College , Makurdi, 
Interviewed in Makurdi on 22/02/2021 
Isaac Ukpoju , Journalist , Interviewed in Lafia LGA, on 27/ 02/ 2021 
Nkechi Illochi ,  Omekedo, 40 + Manager,  Women Rights , ActionAid 
Nigeria , interviewed in Abuja on 25/ 02/ 2021. 
 
Published Works  
Amaghionyeodiwe L.A and T.S Osinubi . “The Nigeria Educational 
system and Returns to Education,” International Journal of 
Applied Econometrics and Quantitative Studies, vol, 3-1, EAAEDS 
, 2006. 
Comfort Erika Ugbem and Agnes Abganugo IKwuba, "Cultural views of 
womanhood in Igede Society of North Central Nigeria”  in  
Okpeh Ochayi Okpeh  and Elijah Ikpanor (eds),  in Themes on 
women Studies in Africa :Perspectives from Nigeria, Donafriqu 
Publishers , 2015. 
Emeka Daniel  Oruonye , The challenges of Girl - Child Education to 
attainment of the miilenenium Development Goals in Taraba 
State  , Nigeria, Taraba State University Journal of Arts and 
Social Sciences  Vol . 2 ( 1)  September 2021. 
International Day of the Girl Child , retrieved on www.un.org, Tuesday, 
9th February , 2021. 
Lakshmi M. Nasasaiah, Child Labour and Education, Delhi: Discovery 
Publishing House , New Delhi, 2009, 24 
Muhammad Abdullahi , Osezua Ehiyamen , Lawan Cheri and Aliyu Isah 
Chikaji, “Analysis of the Implementation of community 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the Girl Child Education 
145 
 
development service projects of National Youth Service Corps : 
Channels and hindrance” Ilorin Journal of Administration 
andDevelopment ,University of Ilorin , Vol 2 ( 2) December , 
2016. 
Nigeria Child's right www.lawyale.edu/ rcw/jurisdictions/ afw/ 
retrieved on 28/ 02/ 2021. 
Obasa, Consolidation and After,  in Okafor Chukwuemeka , Ani 
Johnmark, “The National Youth Service Corps Programme and 
Growing Security Threat in Nigeria,” Africa's Public Service 
Delivery & Performance Review , Africa's Development watch, 
Vol 2( 2) , June 2012. 
O'Cornell: In “Yecho Elizabeth Ihugh , Education for National 
Development ; A study of the Experience of Tiv Women of 
Venue State , 1900- 2006,” In   Patrick  I. Ukase, Sylvester T. 
Ugbegili , Bem J. Audu , Elijah T. Ikpanor( Eds) , History , 
Globalisation and Relations in Africa , Festschrift in Honour of 
Okkpeh O. Okpeh , Jnr (Lagos , Intergrity Publisher, 2018). 
Offorma G, Girl-Child Education in Africa , Keynote Address presented 
at the federation of University women of Africa ,16th – 19 July 
,2019 ,  held in Lagos , PDF , retrieve at researchgate.neton 
Tuesday, 9th  Feb , 2021. 
Ohagenyi M,  Boko Haram and Threat to NYSC Programme, in  Okafor 
Chukwuemeka , AniJohnmark, The National Youth Service 
Corps Programme and Growing Security Threatin Nigeria, 
Africa's Public Service Delivery & performance Review , 
Africa'sDevelopment watch , Vol 2 ( 2) , June 2012. 
Okafor Chukwuemeka and Ani Johnmark, The National Youth Service 
Corps Programme and Growing Security Threat in Nigeria, 
Africa's Public Service Delivery & performance Review , Africa's 
Development watch , Vol 2 ( 2) , June 2012. 
Onyishi A.O, “Youth and National Development in Nigeria: An Analysis 
of National Youth Service Scheme in Okafor Chukwuemeka , Ani 
Johnmark, The National Youth Service Corps Programme and 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                     Esther Ukile Akaa 
146 
 
Growing Security Threat in Nigeria,” Africa's Public Service 
Delivery & performance Review , Africa's Development watch , 
Vol 2 (2), June 2012. 
Samuel Tsebe, Chairman,  House Committee on Womens Affairs, 
Nasarawa State House of Assembly, interviewed in Lafia, on 27/ 
02/ 2021. 
Yadav B.S and Humayun Masood , Socio Economic profile of child Labour 
, Agree New Delhi Publishers , , 2008, 102. 
Zaigi Ngharen Amin, “Violence Against Women in Nigeria , in Okpeh 
Ochayi Okpeh  and ElijahIkpanor (eds),  in Themes on women 
Studies in Africa :Perspectives from Nigeria, Donafrique 
Publishers , 2015. 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Adult Education in Nigeria 
147 
 
 99 99    
    National Youth Service Corps and Adult Education in 
Nigeria 
 
 
Usman Mohammed Musa 
and 
Mahmud Dauda 
 
 
Introduction 
One of the bedrocks and backbone of the development of every nation 
is its youths and education. Development in heterogeneous nation like 
Nigeria cannot be achieved if there is no education and national 
integration. Nigeria is a country blessed with human and material 
resource. Its human conglomeration of different ethnic groups saw the 
need for unity and peaceful coexistence that can be achieve through 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                        Usman M. Musa and M. Dauda 
148 
 
youth service and literacy promotion among various communities in 
Nigeria. The NYSC scheme was established by Decree No.24 of 22nd 
May, 1973 as a response by the Federal Military Government under 
General Yakubu Gowon to obviate the pressing issues of national unity 
and developmental challenges in place in the post-civil war era. The 
scheme consists of four cardinal programmes: Mobilization; 
Orientation; Primary Assignment and Community Development 
Service; and Winding up Activities/Passing-Out-Parade. The scheme is 
made compulsory and involves the country’s graduates particularly the 
first degree and HND holders. When duly mobilized for the program, 
they are deployed to any NYSC Orientation Camp in any part of the 
country and in most cases outside their state of origin and state of 
study to be trained for three weeks (21 days). From the orientation 
camps, they are posted to their place of primary assignment to work for 
the remaining part of the service year which will ends with a Passing 
out Parade (POP).1 Notably, such graduates are youths not above the 
age of 30 years and are universally known as “Corps Member” while a 
group of them are called “Corps Members”. The scheme and actions 
associated with it are aimed at fostering unity and development by 
helping youths to appreciate several other ethnic groups in the country. 
They are to mix, interact and learn from other socio-cultural 
backgrounds. The NYSC scheme is one of the ways education can reach 
every community in the country, which is why most corps members are 
posted to secondary schools for their primary assignment.2 
Educational institutions have utilized the services of NYSC to achieve 
their educational objectives, prominent among which is the adult 
                                                           1O. Chukwuemeka and A. K. Johnmarry, “The National Youth Service Corps 
Programme”, 152. 2M. A. Oyebamiji and I. E. Umofia, “Influence of the Activities of the National 
Youth Service Corps Scheme on the Knowledge of Social Issues in Host 
Communities in Rivers and Akwa Ibom States”, International Journal of Education 
and Evaluation, Vol.2, No.1, (2016), 29. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Adult Education in Nigeria 
149 
 
education programmes like civic education, community education and 
community development, all being executed mostly by the NYSC. In 
addition, NYSC has remained a strong national agency in integrating the 
people and building the nation’s unity, cultural diversities and 
development. It is against this background, that this chapter evaluates 
the NYSC and adult education in Nigeria within the context of its 
history and how NYSC delivers adult education. It analyzes the way and 
manner NYSC delivers adult education. It examines the relationship of 
NYSC and adult education to national integration and national 
development. It finally assesses the pressing challenges confronting 
NYSC and adult education in the pursuit of national integration and 
development. 
 
Adult Education 
The history of adult education according to Usman and Alhassan is a 
hit-and miss story – starting off with strong rhetoric, promises and 
expectation and concluding with limited success, and even neglect and 
disappointment in too many cases.3The origin could be traced to the 
period of British colonization. The British government had no clearly 
defined policy on education for Nigeria before 1925. At early stage, 
British colonial administrators with the support of Christian 
missionaries managed all education activities. According to Fafunwa 
cited in Nnazor, the British in an attempt to promote education in their 
West African colonies set up the Phelps-Stokes Fund Commission in 
1922 with the aim of the need of a policy on adult education and 
community education.4  The commission’s recommendation for the 
                                                           3 M. H. Usman and A. I’m Alhassan, “Adult Education Trends in Nigeria, Challenges 
and Prospects” (Paper presented at the 4th National Conference of the Faculty of 
Social Sciences, Usman Danfodiyo University), Sokoto, 13th-16th May, 2013, 1. 4 R. Nnazor, “Adult Education in Nigeria: The Consequence of Neglect and Agenda 
for Action”, International Education Journal, Vol.6, No.4, (2005), 531, accessed 
25/02/2021, http://iej.cjb.net/1443-2475.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                        Usman M. Musa and M. Dauda 
150 
 
development and institution of a policy on adult education represented 
the first key formal acknowledgement of the need to develop adult 
education alongside youth education or schooling. The commission 
stressed the education of the entire community if education was to 
result in meaningful development. To educate the children at school 
while the adult population remained largely illiterate and uneducated 
amounted to a grossly inadequate utilization of education in 
development.  
Following the Phelps-Stokes report, Fafunwa in Nnazor stressed that 
the British colonial government issued its first education policy for 
Nigeria in 1925 which concentrated mainly on school education and 
missed the development of adult education. However, in 1951, the 
Central Board of Education endorsed a policy on adult education with 
the aim to organize remedial primary education for adults which 
included basic adult literacy and craft-making, and stressing the 
importance of women’s participation in adult education. Following the 
policy, adult literacy classes sprung up in many parts of Nigeria. There 
was considerable enthusiasm for adult literacy among the people and 
the governments of the three regions of Nigeria: East, West, and North. 
The enthusiasm was particularly strong from 1950 to 1956, but the 
free primary education schemes initiated from 1955 and 1957 resulted 
in the waning of the enthusiasm and in drastic decline in government 
support for adult literacy. The enormous cost of free primary education 
left little resources for adult literacy. Thus, the first somewhat serious 
attempt at adult education lost steam or even collapsed.5 
In 1959, the new Commission known as Ashby Commission was 
appointed to determine Nigeria’s needs for post-secondary education 
over the next twenty years (1960-1980). In reviewing such, the 
commission recommended further expansion since progress had been 
made in the primary and secondary education. The commission still 
                                                           5 Nnazor, “Adult Education in Nigeria”, 531 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Adult Education in Nigeria 
151 
 
paid little attention to the development of adult education even though 
it flashes in some communities supported by regional government or 
voluntary agencies. 
With the independence of Nigeria in 1960 there have been several 
National Development Plans articulating the country’s development 
priorities and strategies. None of the plans provided a comprehensive 
framework and impetus for the development of adult education. The 
Nigerian National Policy on Education was adopted in 1977 and 
modified in 1981. The policy provides for equal access to education, 
including continuing and further education, and commits to the 
eradication of illiteracy and promotion of lifelong learning.6 Beyond the 
articulation of desired outcomes, nothing much has been achieved in 
terms of significant development of adult education. There has hardly 
been a sustainable, virile, and coherently comprehensive set of 
programs demonstrating government’s commitment to adult education 
as a strategic priority in Nigeria’s development.  
However, with the establishment of the National Commission for Mass 
Literacy, Adult and Non-Formal Education in 1990 charged to monitor 
and coordinate adult education programs as well as to conduct 
research related to the development of adult and non-formal education 
in the country, adult education programs continued to operate mainly 
as disparate, piecemeal activities that are not integrated into a 
coherent, purposeful strategy in pursuit of a national development 
vision. Many government sponsored adult education activities have 
been chronically anaemic due to inadequate funding, and 
lackadaisically implemented owing largely to a historical lack of 
passion and vision for adult education as both a strategic goal and an 
instrument for national development. Adult education curricula are 
hardly forward-looking or responsive to the strategic needs of the 
                                                           6 Nnazor, 531. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                        Usman M. Musa and M. Dauda 
152 
 
economy or to the personal, social and political development needs of 
the vast majority of Nigerian adults. Frameworks for organizing and 
delivering programs are hardly innovative or forward-looking.7 To 
Omolewa, the constraints of funding, lack of continuing policy, problem 
of gender and language as well as the inadequacy of physical and 
instructional facilities in government-owned adult education training 
center’s is indicative of the neglect and marginal status of adult 
education.8 
It should be noted that Adult Education has no acceptable connotation 
but according to the United Nation Educational Scientific and Cultural 
Organization in 1976 (UNESCO) as presented in Adekola, adult 
education is defined as “the entire body of organized process whatever 
the content, level or method, formal or otherwise, whether they prolong 
or replace initial education in schools, college and universities as well 
as apprenticeship, whereby persons regarded as adults by the society to 
which they belong develop their abilities, enrich their knowledge, 
improve their technical or professional qualifications and bring about 
changes in their attitude or behavior in the two fold perspectives of full 
personal development and participation in balanced and independent 
social, economic and cultural development”.9 It further articulates Adult 
Education in its International Conference on Adult Education 
(CONFINTEA) V documents of 2009 as cited in Usman and Alhassan as 
“the entire body of ongoing learning processes, formal or otherwise, 
where by people regarded as adults by the society to which they belong 
                                                           7 Nnazor, 532. 8 M. A. Omolewa, “Setting the Tone of Adult Education and Continuing Education 
in Africa” in A. Ndabawa et al., (eds.), The State of Adult and Continuing Education 
in Africa, (Windhoek: Department of Adult and Non-Formal Education, University 
of Namibia, 2000), 15. 9G. Adekola, “Establishing a Link Between Adult Education and Community 
Development for Improved Teaching, Learning and Practice of Concepts”, Global 
Journal of Educational Research, Vol.11, No.1, (2012), 66, accessed 25/02/2021, 
http://dx.doi.org/10.4314/gjedr.v11i1.9.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Adult Education in Nigeria 
153 
 
develop their abilities, enrich their knowledge and improve their 
technical or professional qualifications or turn them in a new direction 
to meet their own needs and those of their society”.10 
In line with this world view, the Nigeria National Policy on Education 
(NNPE) is set out to achieve five national goals as stated in the National 
Policy on Education by Federal Republic of Nigeria 2004 as cited in 
Adekola and Nwogu. These goals are to achieve: 
(a) A free and democratic society; 
(b) A just and egalitarian society; 
(c)  a united, strong and self reliant nation;  
(d) A great and dynamic society 
(e) A land of full opportunities for all citizens.11 
Towards achieving these national goals, the National Policy on 
Education in 2004 as cited in Adekola and Nwogu recognizes the place 
of adult education and in its Section Six states the goals of adult 
education as: 
i. To provide functional literacy and continuing education for 
adults and youths who have never had the advantage of formal 
education or who did not complete their primary education; 
ii. To provide functional and remedial education for those young 
people who did not complete secondary education; 
iii. To provide education for different categories of completers of 
the formal education system in order to improve their basic 
knowledge and skills. 
                                                           10 M. H. Usman and A. U. Alhassan, “Adult Education Trends in Nigeria, Challenges 
and Prospects” (Paper Presented at the 4th National Conference of the Faculty of 
Social Sciences, Usman Danfodiyo University), Sokoto, 13th-16th May, 2013, 4. 11 G. Adekola and G. A. Nwogu, “Challenges of Community Development in an 
Emerging Democracy: Implications for Adult and Non-Formal Education”, 
International Journal of Education and Research, Vol. 3, No. 6, June (2015), 461. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                        Usman M. Musa and M. Dauda 
154 
 
iv. To provide in-service, on the job, vocational and professional 
training for different categories of workers and professionals in 
order to improve their skills. 
v. To give the adult, education for public enlightenment.12 
Thus, these goals as stated above, are the main purpose of adult 
education in Nigeria. It should be noted that Adult Education revolves 
around three programmes namely: Civic Education, Community 
Education and Community Development which is also part of the 
cardinal programmes of the NYSC scheme. The National Youth Service 
Corps (NYSC) scheme and Adult Education programmes no doubt have 
recorded a momentous role in promoting national integration, unity 
and rapid development through their operations. 
 
NYSC in the Delivery of Adult Education in Communities 
As observed earlier, adult education in relation to NYSC deliver its civic 
education, community education and community development 
programmes which details are as follows: 
In the area of Civic Education, the NYSC corps members who are mostly 
posted to secondary schools in different communities use civic 
education as a critical and effective empowerment tool for promoting 
citizens participation in democratic and development purposes. Civic 
education according to Adebola and Agusiobo is defined as a process of 
educating citizens of their rights, duties and responsibilities to 
empower and motivate them to what areas of the political and 
governance processes they can effectively participate in, what they can 
do to influence political outcomes and thereby improve the quality of 
governance at all levels.13 The teaching of such will drive the citizen’s 
consciousness, harmony and responsibilities to every other individual 
                                                           12Adekola and Nwogu, “Challenges of Community Development in Emerging 
Democracy”, 461 13 Adebola and Agusiobo, “The Role of NYSC”, 77. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Adult Education in Nigeria 
155 
 
irrespective of language, religion or political affiliation.  Furthermore, 
the NYSC in delivery of civic education has guided individuals on how 
to have a peaceful conflict resolution method, as it display how 
individuals should communicate effectively and come to conclusion in a 
peaceful manner when conflicts occur.14  Therefore, civic education 
should be made a prime concern in order to have an conscious and 
effective individuals in the society. 
The delivery of community education is another way NYSC teaches 
adult education. According to Ani, addressed in Adebola and Agusiobo, 
community education entails a supporting relationship and sharing of 
facilities between a community school, as well as a community 
involvement in the management of the community schools.15 The NYSC 
with its human resource capacity has continued to deliver community 
education in almost every community in Nigeria through its ability to 
provide vocational or skill acquisition training, entrepreneurship 
education for the aim of reducing unemployment through self 
employment and generating self income through their training and 
augmentation of their skill and abilities. The scheme also engages in 
health management campaigns to reduce health problems in order to 
have a productive life. The NYSC in the 2011 elections has proved to the 
youths and host communities its willingness to contribute their selfless 
service to national growth without any form of fear by encouraging the 
individuals to also do the same. 
Lastly, the NYSC through its cardinal programme of Community 
Development Service (CDS) project is being used as means to educate 
adults in their host communities by focusing on developmental projects 
that will benefit the people. The Corps members collaborate with adult 
                                                           14  R. Kapur, “Role of Adult Education in National Development”, ResearchGate, 
September (2019), 7, accessed 26/02/2021, 
https://www.researchgate.net/publication/335738715.  15 Adebola and Agusiobo, “Role of NYSC”, 78. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                        Usman M. Musa and M. Dauda 
156 
 
educators by organizing the people of the communities and their 
leaders on the need to identify and gather resources for the execution 
of projects that will be of benefits.16 Such project includes 
infrastructures like building or renovation of classrooms, clinics or 
public toilets, construction of bridges, building of boreholes and roads. 
The NYSC uses this to integrate the people in place of development by 
forming a formidable force towards such community development 
without waiting for the government. However, these Corps members in 
the delivery of adult education engage in social work to encourage the 
communities by improving the wellbeing of the people. Such works 
include provision of tuition classes free of cost to individuals, donation 
of various useful items like books, bags, clothing, etc., and seasonal 
environmental sanitation which practice have educated and 
encouraged the individuals to participate in such activities that will 
bring about livelihood opportunities, personality development and 
community progress. Hence, the government should endeavor to 
effectively support the worthy initiatives of the NYSC in the delivery of 
such adult education programmes which will reduce their cost on 
community development and increase literacy, awareness and 
development in the country. 
 
NYSC, Adult Education and National Integration 
National integration as opined by Shona and cited in Ayinde is the 
consciousness of a common identity amongst the citizens of a country. 
That is to say people have to take into cognizance the fact that they are 
one, irrespective of their differences in caste, religion, region or even 
language.17 The NYSC, which is aimed at developing common ties 
among the Nigerian youths and promoting national unity and 
                                                           16 Adebola and Agusiobo, “Role of NYSC”, 78. 
17  A. F. Ayinde, “National Youth Service Corps Programme and the Quest for 
National Integration: Issues for Policy Consideration”, Journal of Management and 
Social Sciences, Vol.7, No.1, (2018), 281. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Adult Education in Nigeria 
157 
 
integration on one hand, with adult education on the other hand, has 
been successful to some extent in achieving and promoting national 
integration despite some challenges generally associated with every 
scheme. However, the deployment of Corps members to places outside 
their domicile in order to interact with other people from different 
socio-economic and ethno-religious backgrounds has helped to 
integrate or bring together the youths of Nigeria as well as the adults 
through their knowledge of adult education and bridging the ethnic and 
religious divisions in the nation. It also helps in providing exposure to 
other ethnic groups as it give a practical lesson on how to relate, 
interface and socialize with persons of diverse affiliations as people 
united under one nation which is positive step towards building a 
stronger nation.18 
Moreover, the scheme has aided social integration by providing 
opportunities for cross cultural interaction that has led to inter-
marriages which is vital to national integration as it helps to reduce 
inter-ethnic stereotypes and suspicions that were in existence after the 
Nigerian Civil War.19 That is to say, some Corps members who have 
served outside their ethnic background have one way or the other 
associated with persons or even married from outside their own 
cultural background or geo-political setting due to social interaction as 
a result of the youth service, while adult education has promoted and 
acknowledged such practice of cultural diffusion which foster unity and 
development in their various communities. 
 
 
                                                           18 J. Campbell, December 7, 2017 (7:00 am), post on “The National Youth Service 
Corps: A Bridge to Nationalism in Nigeria”, from Africa in Transition, COUNCIL ON 
FOREIGN RELATIONS BLOG, February 27, 2021, 
https://www.vfr.org/blog/national-youth-servive-Corps-bridge-nationalism-
nigeria.  19 J. Campbell, December 7, 2017 (7:00 am), posts on “The National Youth Service 
Corps: A Bridge to Nationalism in Nigeria”. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                        Usman M. Musa and M. Dauda 
158 
 
NYSC members in collaboration with adult education programmes have 
organized and promoted sporting activities in their various schools and 
communities which have been used to improve knowledge of social 
issues by targeting the behavior, enthusiasm and enlightenments of the 
youths on the need for a peaceful coexistence and cooperation in the 
nation.20 Both programmes also provide employment buffer by offering 
employment to recently graduated youths who are sometimes retained 
in their places of deployment without regards to their ethnic/religious 
settings. This aides economic integration and creates a sense of unity 
among the diverse groups.21 In addition, NYSC in the quest for national 
integration has fostered a sense of patriotism among Nigerian youths 
by participating and obeying the clarion call to serve the fatherland in 
any part of the country they are posted. 
 
NYSC, Adult Education and National Development 
The role and connection of NYSC and Adult Education to national 
development is multidimensional as it serves as a foundation for 
progress in human and infrastructural development. This can be seen 
and understood through the intricate existing relationships between 
the economic, socio-cultural and political determining factors of 
Nigerian development. 
The economic role of the NYSC and Adult Education to national 
development can be seen in its contribution to human capital formation 
or development projects. NYSC and Adult Education according to Jinna 
and Maikano have enhanced labor productivity by yielding high rates in 
investment through equipping recipients with essential literacy and 
numeracy skills which has helped to improve the people’s standard of 
                                                           20Oyebamiji and Umofia, “Influence of the Activities of the National Youth Service 
Corps Scheme on the Knowledge of Social Issues in Host Communities in Rivers 
and Akwa Ibom States”, 32. 21J. Campbell, December 7, 2017 (7:00 am), post on “The National Youth Service 
Corps: A Bridge to Nationalism in Nigeria”. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Adult Education in Nigeria 
159 
 
living and productivity by reducing sickness, mortality rates and 
increase life expectancy through formal education and training that will 
provide a population climate suitable for investment.22 However, the 
NYSC through its community development services on one hand and 
adult education on the other hand has also been instrumental to the 
familiarization of the active population of Nigeria with Information 
Communication Technology (ICT) which is positive tool for the smooth 
integration and development of the economy in a global perspective. 
This is owing to the fact that digitalization has made the world to move 
to knowledge based economic structures and information societies 
such as networks of individuals, firms and countries are linked 
electronically in inter-dependent and interactive relationship.23 
NYSC and Adult Education also play major role in social development of 
the nation. The participation of the youths and poor people have helped 
to increase growth by reducing poverty through vocational education, 
entrepreneurship development and skills acquisition training or 
programmes,24 which enables individual to recognize and develop their 
skills to be independently  self employed in their respective skills as 
little or no capital is required in the training. This has helped to 
promote a stable community and safe environment. In addition, NYSC 
and adult education programmes have helped to train Nigerian 
population in benefitting from basic health care services/facilities, 
including sexual and reproductive health services through public 
awareness/campaigns and sensitization of the people against diseases 
                                                           22 Y. J. Jinna and P. N. Maikano, “The Role of Adult Education in National 
Development”, International Letters of Social and Humanistic Science, Vol. 32, 
(2014), 37, accessed 26/02/2021, doi:10.18052/www.scipress.com/ILSHS. 32.35.  23 Jinna and Maikano, “The Role of Adult Education”, 37. 24A. P. Obinna et al., “Community Involvement in the National Youth Service Corps 
Community Development Service Projects in Abia State, Nigeria”, Journal of 
Agricultural Extension, Vol.23, No.4, October (2019), 66, accessed 24/02/2021, 
http://dx.doi.org/10.4314/jae.v23i4.8.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                        Usman M. Musa and M. Dauda 
160 
 
that can devastate people such as HIV/AIDS, Sexually Transmitted 
Infections (STIs), among other health problems. This is often carried 
out by Corps members who are posted to secondary schools and 
trained as Anti HIV/AIDS vanguards. This enables the masses to take 
advantages of such programmes to improve their health and 
personality.  
The NYSC programme and adult education have improved the living 
condition of people through promoting civic and social engagement 
particularly among the adults belonging to deprived, marginalized and 
economically weaker section of the society. With the assistance of 
NYSC, individuals are able to bring about changes in their attitudes and 
behavioral traits as well as communicate with others in a polite and 
decent manner by putting into practice values, norms and principles in 
implementation of tasks and activities. Hence, interaction, 
communication and socialization with others have developed the 
enrichment of people’s life against seclusion and promote social 
development in the nation. 
However, Corps members in collaboration with some adult education 
centers execute infrastructural projects as part of their community 
development service to the nation. This developmental project includes 
projects like construction of classrooms, bridges, bus stops, status and 
symbols among others as seen in many host communities of the 
country. Other contributions of NYSC and adult education through its 
community development services includes the clearing and draining of 
drainages/culverts, sinking of ordinary dug out wells for easy access of 
water, assistance of the less privileged in the society, organization of 
extra mural classes, adult literacy campaign, among others.25This self 
service or help has in no small way contributed in improving the way of 
                                                           25A. A. Idike and E. O. Innocent, “Role of Youths in Nation-Building”, Journal of 
Policy and Development Studies, Vol.9, No.5, November (2015), 60, accessed 
24/02/2021, www.arabianjbmr.com/JPDS_index.php 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Adult Education in Nigeria 
161 
 
life and living standard of their communities as well as the 
development of the nation’s infrastructure. Moreover, besides seasonal 
works, the scheme has also helped to turn out large tonnage of food 
items and feed the nation through the hectares of farm land were some 
members served in some states of the federation. Notable are the Rice 
Mill in Enugu and Sokoto States, Feed Mill in Lagos State and Garri 
Processing Factory in Kwara State.26 This has not only developed the 
nation but also become a model to other countries. 
Politically, NYSC which has a strong link/connection to adult education 
plays a very significant role in strengthening democratic values. 
According to Seya, cited in Obasi, adult education has informed and 
educated people of their rights and responsibilities by making them to 
actively participate in decision making at local, national and global 
levels of democracy. The absence of such knowledge can constitute 
abuse of human rights and social injustice which can pave way to 
violent conflicts or become a stumbling block to economic, social and 
political development of the nation.27 This is achieved through the 
teaching of civic education by Corp members posted to a community 
which is part of the adult education programmes; the inability of the 
individual to have rights in decision making can cause 
underdevelopment. The political dimension of both NYSC and adult 
education is geared towards awareness among individuals to know 
their rights and duties as they become able to render effective 
contributions towards the welfare of their communities.  Furthermore, 
the community development service of both NYSC and adult education 
has helped councillors to serve and be accountable to their 
communities as Corps members and adult educators engage in 
                                                           26P. Udende and A. A. Salahu, “National Youth Service Corps Scheme and the 
Quest for National Unity and Development: A Public Relations Perspective”, 
ResearchGate, January (2012), 10-11, accessed 24/02/2021, 
https://www.researchgate.net/publication/293976288.  27 S. Obasi, “Adult Education in Nigeria: A Discipline in Search of Scope and 
Direction? “, Journal of Education and Practice, Vol.5, No.11, (2014), 28 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                        Usman M. Musa and M. Dauda 
162 
 
community projects and improve service delivery which in turn make 
the councillors to carry out such public service or civic duty in order to 
protect their reputation.28 The community development programme 
has also helped to raise people’s expectation of all aspects of the quality 
of life which revolve around learning to give and expecting more 
community life through sustained community development support to 
groups, networks and participatory democracy movements. In 
addition, NYSC and adult education have promoted national 
development by contributing to cultural change within organizations or 
communities through influencing how colleagues and partners engage 
with people or communities. These practitioners have also promoted 
change within statutory agencies and partnerships by demonstrating 
effective ways of engaging in trusted, honest and open dialogue with 
communities.29 
Lastly, NYSC and adult education are powerful tools for favouring 
inclusive development by ensuring and promoting peace, security, 
stability and national unity in a democratic nation. Such peace and 
stability are seen in their prevention of political disorders and civil 
unrest through political education, public enlightenment campaign, 
policy advocacy and participation of Corps members in electoral 
processes in order to have a neutral and smooth process.30They have 
also helped to build bridges of understanding across ethnic/political 
groups, affiliation and religious divide. The sustainability of democracy 
and good governance can only be achieved in a peaceful, secured and 
stable environment. Absence of such will compromise social, political 
and economic progress. Thus, it is apparent from the forgoing that 
NYSC and adult education are indispensable vectors that have 
                                                           28G. Adekola and G. A. Nwogu, “Challenges of Community Development in an 
Emerging Democracy: Implications for Adult and Non-Formal Education”, 
International Journal of Education and Research, Vol.3, No.6, June (2015), 460. 29 Adekola and Nwogu, “Challenges of Community Development”, 459. 30Jinna and Maikano, “The Role of Adult Education”, 37. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Adult Education in Nigeria 
163 
 
contributed to national development. There is virtually no aspect of the 
economic, social and political life that has not witnessed meaningful 
progress from NYSC and adult education in Nigeria. In fact, it has given 
room for literacy and entry point into labor market rather than 
roaming the street unemployed and ignorant of opportunities that exist 
in other parts of the country.  
 
Challenges of NYSC and Adult Education to National Integration 
and Development in Nigeria 
Despite the invaluable gains reaped from NYSC and adult education to 
national integration and development, there are potential challenges 
faced by both Corps members and adult educators among which 
includes: 
Lack of resources particularly in rural communities which has affected 
policy making and developmental projects31 - This problem has 
impacted adversely on community development projects conceived by 
either Corps members or adult educators due to lack of finance, while 
some projects were abandoned due to such inadequacy. This has led to 
declining interest of either Corps members or adult educators in 
community development services. This as a result makes it difficult to 
achieve the objective of rapid development in the country. Other 
resources include inadequate welfare, leaders and volunteers to 
support rural causes and initiatives. 
The inadequate materials needed to supervise and monitor adult 
education agendas have become an obstacle to achieving the objectives 
of both scheme. Monitoring which is vital ingredient for successful 
implementation of adult education should be integrated into the 
programme action plan.32 
                                                           31 Adekola and Nwogu, “Challenges of Community Development”, 463. 32Usman and Alhassan, “Adult Education Trends in Nigeria, Challenges and 
Prospects”, 10. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                        Usman M. Musa and M. Dauda 
164 
 
Insecurity constitutes a major threat to adult education programmes. 
Corps members posted to less secured areas find it difficult to execute 
and serve their fatherland without fear or tension of being attacked, 
extorted, intimidated or harassed by hoodlums, kidnappers, insurgents 
or bandits.33  
Inaccessibility is another challenge as some citizens find it difficult to 
either serve or enrol into adult education. Individuals should have the 
opportunity to develop themselves throughout their life without 
regards to their age. This will help them acquire knowledge, interact 
with other people who can pilot their life transition by improving their 
quality of life and develop their potentials to the nation.34  
 
Other daunting challenges of both NYSC and adult education in Nigeria 
include lack of access to information by the local communities; low 
level research in the field of practitioner; inadequate and unsustainable 
cooperation or support among the population; limited sports and 
recreation facilities that can promote integration; cultural and religious 
intolerance; geographical factor among others. All the challenges 
threaten the objective of NYSC and adult education in the quest for 
national integration and development, if not addressed. 
 
Conclusion 
In the light of the above discourse, having traced the history of NYSC to 
the events of the late 1960’s and the negligence of the government 
towards adult education since its inception, it can also be seen that the 
NYSC and adult education have rendered invaluable support to the 
integration and development of the nation, particularly in the aspect of 
community development service. As highlighted, both had executed 
                                                           33Ayinde, “‘National Youth Service Corps Programme”, 286. 34 Usman and A. U. Alhassan, “Adult Education Trends in Nigeria, Challenges and 
Prospects”, 10. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Adult Education in Nigeria 
165 
 
projects ranging from infrastructural to human development projects 
that benefit not only the people, communities but the nation as a whole. 
Without doubt, it has given room for literacy and entry point into 
labour market rather than roaming the street unemployed and 
ignorant of opportunities that exist in other parts of the country. 
Despite its key role in the discernible quest for national integration and 
development, it is also confronted with the challenges of lack of 
resources, insecurity among others that, if not addressed, will hamper 
the landmark achievement of NYSC in adult education for National 
Development. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                          Abdussalam, Aisha Ajoke 
166 
 
 1010 1010    
    NYSC and Education in Nigeria: An Appraisal of the 
Role of National Youth Service Corps Teachers in 
Education Delivery in Schools in Kaduna State 
 
 
Abdussalam, Aisha Ajoke 
 
 
Introduction  
The quest for sustainable development and national integration has 
become a common phenomenon in Nigeria and the world over. Policies 
and programmes have been formulated for the attainment of 
development in all spheres of human endeavour. The National Youth 
Service Corps (NYSC) was established in 1973 with the aim of achieving 
even development, peaceful coexistence and national unity. The 
Scheme targeted the youth which account for a significant number of 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Education in Nigeria: 
167 
 
the entire population in Nigeria. Also, governments and policymakers 
in Africa and Nigeria, to be specific, need to provide opportunities for 
the continent’s more than 200 million youths in order to make 
available a conducive environment and a decent avenue for better 
living and economic advancement. 
Every year, young fresh Nigerian graduates are deployed to various 
parts of the country to serve their father land for a period of one year. 
Majority of them are sent to primary and secondary schools. One of the 
bedrocks of development in any nation is education. Illiteracy is a 
major developmental challenge, which means that only a literate nation 
can make greater strides towards development1. Therefore, education 
holds strong in fashioning an individual into an agent of change and a 
promoter of societal values, growth and development. Education is also 
seen as a weapon used in the acquisition of skills, knowledge and 
competence necessary for survival2. 
The National Youth Service Corps Scheme is one of the machineries of 
the federal government in ensuring that education gets to every 
community in the 36 states of the federation. This accounts for the 
reason majority of the Corps members of NYSC are deployed to schools 
for their one-year service to fatherland. Hence, educational institutions 
account for the biggest employer of Corps members in the country over 
the years. This is supported by the fact that a lot of community 
development activities have been carried out in schools. NYSC Corps 
members are a major player in the educational sector of the host 
                                                           1Morufu. A. Oyebamiji and InemesitEssietUmofia, “Influence of the Activities of 
the National Youth Service Corps Scheme on the Knowledge of Social Issues in 
Host Communities in Rivers and AkwaIbom States” International Journal of 
Education and Evaluation 2, no.1 (2016):29. 2C.GeorgeEkpo, and Is’haqA.Bello, “Education: an effective and efficient tool for 
conflict management” African Journal of Allied Education no. 1 (2011): 59. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                          Abdussalam, Aisha Ajoke 
168 
 
communities’3. Education in Nigeria is aimed at producing an upright 
individual who can translate knowledge acquired into actions that will 
benefit the society. An educated Nigerian should have self confidence, 
respect and honour for his country and also be well equipped to face 
the challenges of the society and the world. The responsibility of 
producing such individual in the society lies on the teachers4. It is the 
role of the teacher to impact knowledge, give instructions and inculcate 
appropriate skills for academic excellence. National Youth Service 
Corps members are posted to schools to serve as role models to the 
children and inculcate morals and discipline for the task ahead. They 
bridge the manpower shortfall in most schools across the country.  
In Kaduna state, majority of the Corps members are posted to schools 
for their primary assignment and to also impact meaningfully on the 
young minds and the educational sector as a whole. This is in the quest 
to achieve the pronouncement in the National Policy on Education that 
education is an essential instrument in the attainment of excellence, 
national integration and development. The presence of young teachers 
who just graduated from the university is believed to have significant 
influence on the academic performance of students in secondary 
schools.  
This study will examine the Role of NYSC teachers in Education 
delivery in schools in Kaduna State. The study is divided into five 
sections. The first part is the introduction already discussed. The 
second part is the conceptual clarification of key concepts while the 
third section shall appraise the National Youth service Corps and its 
objectives and Education in Nigeria. The role of NYSC Teachers’ in 
                                                           3  Morufu. A. Oyebamiji and InemesitEssietUmofia, “Influence of the Activities of 
the National Youth Service Corps Scheme on the Knowledge of Social Issues in 
Host Communities in Rivers and AkwaIbom States”, 29. 4 Abigail Osuafor, “Standard of education in Nigeria: the Role of Teachers” 
Www.Academia.Edu/21672409/Standard_Of_Education_In_Nigeria_The_Role_Of
_Teachers, 3 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Education in Nigeria: 
169 
 
Education delivery in Kaduna State will be assessed in the fourth 
section of the study. The fifth section will be on conclusion and 
recommendations. 
 
Conceptual Clarification 
This is necessitated on the desire to avoid ambiguity and misconstruing 
the meaning of some key concepts in relation to this study. This is to 
make the study more concise. 
 
The Concept of Youth  
Globally, youths are seen as a formidable force to reckon with in the 
society. They are a critical segment of the entire population exhuming 
strength and dynamism which are essential ingredients in the 
engineering of development. According to the Nigerian government, 
youths are ambitious, energetic and promising. From the age of 15 
years, a Nigerian youth is legally allowed to work. They are considered 
vulnerable in society because of the rapid pace of change they are 
experiencing at this time in their lives5. The youth are an essential 
instrument of change, peaceful coexistence, social mobilization, growth 
and development. Youths according to the NYSC are Nigerian graduates 
from universities and polytechnics recognized by the Regulatory 
commission on tertiary institutions in the country and the world at 
large. They are mobilized, deployed to states other than their states of 
origin, orientated and posted to place of primary assignment for a 
period of one year to provide services and engage in community 
development programmes. The maximum age requirement for a Corps 
member to be posted for service is thirty (30) years while graduates 
above that age will be exempted from the one year service. 
 
                                                           5Chimamkpam Williams Uzoma,MichealOlusegunFalade,  Ramon Bello 
“Background Paper on the Nigerian Youth”, The Centre for Public Policy 
Alternative, (2016): 2. 
. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                          Abdussalam, Aisha Ajoke 
170 
 
Teaching 
Teaching is an art and craft involving teachers who are part of an ad-
hoc decision making about the management of their classroom for the 
implementation of government educational policies. Such decisions 
may include:  
(i)  the selection of the types of materials to use for instruction,  
(ii)  the stating of behavioural or instructional objectives,  
(iii)  the selection of instructional strategies,  
(iv) the selection of appropriate evaluation practices and techniques,  
(v)  the selection of students and teachers activities6.  
Teaching involves use of multi-dimensional instrument in learning, 
imparting knowledge and improving the academic performance of 
students/pupils. It has to do with the systematic presentation of facts, 
ideas, skills and techniques to students. It also involves the sharing of 
knowledge in the process of developing the individual.7 Teaching is an 
important aspect of the educational system; it is an instrument of 
imparting knowledge and morals in order to secure the future of a 
nation. 
 
Youth in Nigeria 
The youth of a nation are the future and trustees of its prosperity; they 
are its greatest investment that determines the country’s growth and 
development. The degree of enthusiasm, volatility and responsibility 
has significant impact on the country’s advancement. Nigerian youth 
constitute the most active and productive sub-sector of Nigerian 
population, committed to socioeconomic and community development. 
                                                           6Samuel G.Ibe-Basssey,“Educational Technology: The teaching-learning process & 
the falling standard of education in Nigeria”. 35th Inaugural Lecture series of the 
University of Uyo. Nigeria. 11-28. 7Paul B.Ozano, “Enhancing the Teaching Profession in Nigeria: A Historical 
Perspective”, Academic Journal of Interdisciplinary Studies2, no.5 (2015): 51. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Education in Nigeria: 
171 
 
If correctly guided and mobilized, the society will be better. 8It was 
observed from the available data that the average Nigerian youth is 
willing and ready to serve in any part of the country as long as his or 
her security as well as job placement is assured.9. 
The National Youth Policy broadly targets all young people in Nigeria 
between the ages of 15 and 29 years, while recognising that youth are 
not a homogeneous group in terms of needs and circumstances. 
Therefore, the policy aims to provide a basis for interventions to 
appropriately address the specific and special needs of each of several 
identified target groups. In this regard, this policy categorises the target 
population into three groups: low-risk youth, especially vulnerable 
youth, and most-at-risk youth10. Shortly after Nigeria gained 
independence, the government initiated series of programs aimed at 
promoting youth development by shaping their character and behavior, 
as well as promoting competitive spirit and national integration. 
Notable among these programs is the formation of youth clubs in 
secondary and tertiary institutions with the aim of encouraging 
sporting activities and instilling discipline. The federal government 
established the National Youth Service Corps in 1973 with the aim of 
promoting national integration and exposing graduates of tertiary 
institutions to leadership roles and community development before 
joining the job market. To further solidify existing programs and 
actions, the Federal Ministry of Youth and Sport Development was 
created. State governments were also encouraged to follow suit in the 
development of creativity and ambition of the Nigerian youths. The 
                                                           8Njoku Raymond and IsigwePaulinusObinna, “The Nigerian Youth and National 
Development: A Prescriptive Exploration”, Journal of Public Administration and 
Social Welfare Research 4 no. 1 (2019): 4. 9Leke Abraham Oluwalogbon, “The Future of Nigeria’s National Youth Service 
Corps Programme: Any Hope for National Integration?”(2019): 13. 10 Ministry of Youth and Sports development, “National Policy on Youth;Enhancing 
Youth Development and Participation in the context of Sustainable Development” 
(2019): 9 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                          Abdussalam, Aisha Ajoke 
172 
 
first youth policy in Nigeria was enacted in 2006 with a subsequent 
review in the year 2009 and its main goal is to provide an appropriate 
framework that will promote the enjoyment of fundamental human 
rights and protect the health, social, economic and political wellbeing of 
all young men and women in order to enhance their participation in the 
overall development process and improve their quality of life11. 
The development of youth in Nigeria is an agenda that cuts across all 
sectors of the economy. The implementation of policies and 
programmes aimed at providing opportunities to the youths and 
improving the standard of living involves all key stakeholders in the 
economy, the government, civil societies, the private sector, 
international development agencies and the youth themselves. 
 
Youth and Development in Nigeria 
The role played by youth in the growth and development of any nation 
cannot be overemphasized. The policy vision of National Policy on 
Youth in Nigeria is to ensure that youths are given equal opportunities 
to realise their dreams and aspirations, irrespective of their 
background and living in a safe and secure environment. This will 
optimise their contributions to National Development of the country. In 
other words, even within the context of a particular culture, socio-
economic and political space, the meaning of who can be considered a 
youth can be based on the philosophical foundations of social science 
fields of studies, its usage and the related specificities12. The concept of 
a youth is described as a group of young individuals who are on the 
verge of becoming matured adults. The youth constitute the most active 
individuals in the Nigerian society. They are viewed as effective 
machinery used in social mobilization and change. This is part of the 
                                                           11Chimamkpam Williams Uzoma et al, “Background Paper on the Nigerian Youth”, 
14. 12 Heath, S., Brooks, R., Cleaver, E., & Ireland, E, Researching Young people’s lives, 
(London: Sage 2009): 10. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Education in Nigeria: 
173 
 
reason the then military regime of General Gowon concluded that the 
morals and values of national unity be inculcated in the minds of 
Nigerian citizens through the introduction of the NYSC Scheme which 
targeted the most volatile population, the youths. The Nigerian youth 
are faced with series of issues that make them vulnerable, leading to 
serious developmental challenges which includes unemployment, 
poverty and inequality. The youth population if not carefully checked 
and managed due to its large number, enthusiasm, volatility and active 
spirit, can pose a serious challenge to the growth of a nation. There is 
therefore the need to pay close attention to the development of youth 
in the society in order to enhance socio economic development and 
advancement. 
 
Education in Nigeria 
Education is a tool instrumental to the attainment of national 
development and social change. Therefore, the quality of education of 
any nation will determine the rate of development of her citizens and 
the change that will occur. Education is viewed as the process by which 
an individual is assisted in physical, mental, moral, spiritual and 
emotional development through the provision of suitable environment 
and impacting of knowledge skills and attitudes that will be of use 
personally and to the society at large13. 
Nigeria has witnessed series of Educational systems in its quest for 
standard educational delivery. Shortly after independence, there were 
reports of shortcomings in the educational system due to its 
dependence on the British educational system. The British educational 
system did not properly capture the unique needs and aspirations of 
Nigerian society. As a result of this lacuna, series of curriculum 
conferences were organized with the aim of establishing a system that 
                                                           13  William E. Ekpiken and Aniefiok O. Ede, “The Role of Teacher Education and 
Nigerian Teachers in National Development: The Way Forward”, Higher Education 
of Social Science 7 no. 1 (2014):140. DOI:10.3968/5349 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                          Abdussalam, Aisha Ajoke 
174 
 
can accommodate the needs and aspirations of the Nigerian child and 
also improving the standard of education. The National policy on 
Education centered on inculcating self-realization, individual and 
national efficiency, and national unity. The policy seeks to achieve 
social, cultural, economic, political, scientific and technological 
development. In 1985, the objectives of the policy were broadened to 
include free primary education among others. Over the years, this 
policy has undergone periodic review to accommodate changes and 
diversity of Nigeria. The goals of education in Nigeria as stated in the 
National Policy on Education 2004 are: 
 •  The inculcation of national consciousness and national unity,  
 •  The inculcation of the right type of values and attitudes for the 
survival of the individual and the Nigerian society, 
 •  The training of the mind in the understanding of the world 
around, and  
•  The acquisition of appropriate skills and the development of 
mental, physical and social abilities and competencies as 
equipment for the individual to live in and contribute to the 
development of the society. The goals stated above will make 
no meaning if they are not translated into action by teachers 
through classroom instruction14. Education is an integral 
instrument in the quest for socio economic growth and 
development. Against this assertion, the National policy on 
education is a reflection of the sentiments of the government 
and citizenry in the pursuit of national unity, nation building, 
consciousness and development. 
 
 
 
 
                                                           14 Abigail Osuofor, “Standard of Education in Nigeria: The Role of Teachers”, 
www.academia.edu. 2-3. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Education in Nigeria: 
175 
 
Education in Kaduna State 
Education in Kaduna State retains top priority for the government, and 
several efforts have been made to carry out meaningful reforms in the 
sector. There have been major reforms by the State Government 
towards the improvement of education quality in the state. The 
education system has experienced an increase in private sector 
participation in the provision of educational services in the state and 
this, with the Universal Basic Education (UBE) Scheme, has led to an 
increase in demand for education. 
The Kaduna State Policy on Education underlines the pivotal role of 
quality education at all levels of education in the state. This policy 
identifies government’s priority areas in the quest for standard 
education and overall development of the state. The priority areas were 
categorized into eight thematic areas as follows:  
•  Quality, Accessible and Equitable Early Child Care Development 
and Basic Education;  
•  Accessible, Quality and Equitable Secondary Education;  
•  Accessible, Equitable and quality Non-Formal Education; 
 • Quality, Equitable and accessible Science, Technical and 
Vocational education;  
•  Quality, Accessible and Equitable higher education;  
•  Quality Teacher Education (Primary and Secondary); 
 •  Quality Teacher Recruitment, Deployment, Development and 
Management; and 
•  Accessible and quality education infrastructure, funding and 
management15. 
The Kaduna State government is concerned with improvement in the 
access to and quality of education at every developmental stage in a 
child’s life. The Early Child Care Development, basic, secondary, adult 
                                                           15 Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, “Kaduna State Education Policy”, 
Kaduna State Government,  6-7. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                          Abdussalam, Aisha Ajoke 
176 
 
and non-formal and tertiary educations are all areas of concern to the 
government. The aspiration to train children both males and females, 
special needs inclusive, is to ensure self-reliance, moral uprightness, 
discipline and tolerance which are the utmost priority of the 
government of Kaduna State. 
 
NYSC and Education system in Kaduna State: An Appraisal 
The NYSC Scheme is one of the initiatives created by the Nigerian 
government as a compulsory exercise for all university graduates to 
reduce the antagonistic spirits, bias and ethnic contentions among 
diverse ethnic groups. Youth are one of the greatest assets that any 
nation can have. Not only are they legitimately regarded as the partners 
of today, but also the greatest investment for a country’s development. 
They are acknowledged as an essential resource with great prospect for 
the advancement of the country. The youth of a nation are deemed as 
valued possession because without them, the future of the nation is 
bleak. Education on the other hand is an instrument of change with 
which a country can achieve greatness socially, politically, 
economically, scientifically and technologically. Every nation strives to 
achieve development and technological advancement. The educational 
system in Nigeria has witnessed series of reforms since independence 
in the bid to improve academic performance and excellence. 
 
Kaduna State aims for better positioning in the quest for National 
growth and development and to achieve this, education is an 
indispensable tool. The educational system needs to be adequately 
equipped to meet the needs, demands and challenges of the labour 
market. To achieve this, Kaduna State intends to effectively coordinate 
the different key players and stakeholders in the Education Sector, and 
clearly identify their roles and responsibilities16. More Corps members 
                                                           16 Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, “Kaduna State Education Policy”, 
Kaduna State Government,  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Education in Nigeria: 
177 
 
are posted to schools for their one year service in comparison to other 
sectors in Nigeria. They serve as ad-hoc teaching staff providing 
necessary manpower and skilled services in the schools.  
 
The Role of NYSC teachers in Education Delivery in Schools in 
Kaduna State 
Youths in Nigeria occupy a strategic position in the attainment of 
developmental goals and objectives. Administrations have ensured that 
policy frameworks are formulated to enhance a suitable environment 
for the realization of productive potentials and maximization of 
creativity. The National Youths Policy recognizes that the youths are a 
key resource that can be tapped for the benefit of the whole country. 
This portrays a government that is ready to meet the needs and 
aspirations of the youth as well as seek a solution to their problems. 
Thus, the policies and programmes were formulated to address issues 
affecting young people by including broad-based strategies that would 
provide the youth meaningful opportunities to realize their potential17.  
The national policy on youth recognizes the need to promote the 
presence and participation of youths in education delivery in the 
country. The presence of youths through the NYSC platform will further 
strengthen the culture of volunteerism and also improve the academic 
performance of students. Studies on the role played by the NYSC 
Scheme have viewed it from the aspect of youth labour mobility and 
ethno-religious accord, promotion of peaceful coexistence and the 
canons of dedication to national service, spirit of citizenship, 
partisanship, and sustainable development18. Every year, Corps 
members are deployed to various parts of Nigeria for their national 
                                                           17Ministry of Youth and Sports development, “National Policy on Youth;Enhancing 
Youth Development and Participation in the context of Sustainable 
Development”10. 18Kareem Bika and Abraham Ehiorobo, “Assessing The Impact of National Youth 
Service Corps Scheme on Socio-Economic Development in Nigeria”, 110. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                          Abdussalam, Aisha Ajoke 
178 
 
service year. These are vibrant young men and women from every field 
of endeavour. Majority of them are deployed to secondary schools in 
the bid to motivate the young ones and further boost their academic 
performance. 
Investigations revealed that Corps members were used to run the 
Universal Primary Education (UPE) programme which the government 
had to embark upon in 1976. At the inception of the programme, the 
UPE was understaffed, thereby necessitating drawing from the NYSC 
pool to make the programme operational. Even till date a large 
percentage of the Corps members are deployed to the teaching 
profession to make up for the short fall in the number of teachers19. 
Corps members are usually used to bridge the gap created by skilled 
manpower shortage in schools across the country.  
The Role of NYSC teachers in Education delivery in Kaduna State is to 
teach. It is accepted in several quarters that teaching has a paramount 
place in education and the development of human resource in 
particular. The quality of teaching and learning determines the quality 
of the future of any nation. Quality education for the youths will 
produce a generation armed with the necessary tools for attaining 
greater heights. It can be attested to the fact that the right teacher who 
truly cares about his/her profession can definitely have a productive 
effect on his/her learners’.20 . Teachers are significant contributors to 
the development of any nation in the aspect of manpower training and 
supply to various sectors of the economy. They ensure that the children 
in their care are imbibed with good morals, discipline and integrity. 
Teachers are looked upon as the foundation builders of the nation and 
standard bearer of the national conscience. They are seen as the real 
                                                           19Leke Abraham OLUWALOGBON, “The Future of Nigeria’s National Youth Service 
Corps Programme: Any Hope for National Integration?”, 7 20 Victor TaiwoOluwayemi, “Assessment of Attitude of Corps Members to Teaching 
in Sokoto Metropolis”. www.academia.edu,  (2016): 24. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Education in Nigeria: 
179 
 
agents that operate the educational system to ensure that people gain 
socio-political, economic, cultural and technological awareness21. 
Kaduna state has 4,260 public primary schools and 541 secondary 
schools; there have been major constraints in improving the learning 
outcomes22 . There is also rising concern on the quality of education, the 
lack of teachers and the poor quality of teachers in the state. This 
explains the reason why 80% of Corps members are posted to schools 
with emphasis on schools in the rural area to fill shortage in manpower. 
Corps members are mainly sent to schools to serve as agents of change 
and role models to the young ones. As youths themselves, it is believed 
that the Corps members will be better positioned to impact 
meaningfully and also render community development services to the 
host communities. Similarly, a study carried out in Kalgo local 
government of Kebbi state revealed that the presence of NYSC adhoc 
teaching staff in secondary schools has greatly impacted on the 
performance in the school and also bridged the gap of insufficient 
skilled manpower.  
To effectively discharge their functions in the schools, studies 
conducted on attitude of Corps members to teaching in Sokoto 
metropolis revealed that Corps members should be given the subjects 
in which they are competent to teach in their various places of primary 
assignment. By extension, teachers should be specialists in their areas 
of domains as this will help in effective delivery and smooth attainment 
of the educational goals as stipulated in the National Policy on 
Education23. 
                                                           21 William E. Ekpiken and Aniefiok O. Ede, “The Role of Teacher Education and 
Nigerian Teachers In National Development: The Way Forward”, 140. 22 Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, “Kaduna State Education Policy”, 
6.  23 Victor TaiwoOluwayemi, “Assessment of Attitude of Corps Members to Teaching 
in Sokoto Metropolis”, 24 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                          Abdussalam, Aisha Ajoke 
180 
 
The role played by NYSC teachers in Educational delivery in Kaduna 
state is quite significant and of great importance to the children in the 
State. The NYSC programme has helped in the educational development 
of the country, especially from junior secondary to tertiary levels24. The 
use of Corps members in the art of teaching has contributed immensely 
to the growth of the educational sector and standard of education 
especially in the rural communities of Kaduna State. 
 
Challenges faced by the NYSC Scheme in the Educational system 
The objectives of the NYSC are laudable and targeted at youth 
empowerment/enlightenment and national development. However, the 
implementation of the educational programme by the Scheme is faced 
with some challenges, including the following. 
 
Lack of Stability in the Implementation of Educational Curriculum 
One major challenge faced is the lack of stability in the implementation 
of educational curriculum. Regular changes in the educational 
curriculum make it difficult for the corps members to adapt to the 
changes therein, given the short duration of their service (one year).  
 
Language Barrier and Inadequate Knowledge of the Culture and 
Traditions of the Host Communities  
Nigeria is a multi-ethnic society with over than two hundred and fifty 
(250) ethnic groups, each with its own distinct language culture and 
tradition. It is the norm for Corp members to be deployed to states 
other than their own. Consequently, Corps teachers sometimes find it 
difficult communicating and teaching because students/pupils may not 
understand English Language, even though it is the official medium of 
communication, while the corps members may not understand the 
local language to translate the communication. Studies carried out by 
                                                           24Aje.A. Aba.“Nigerian Politics, 1999-2009: Images from Chinua Achebe’s Mirror, in 
Joseph Mangut and TerhembaWuam , The Press and Literature in the Fourth 
Republic”, (Markurdi: Aboki Publishers, 2010), 145. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Education in Nigeria: 
181 
 
Amaka and Apine in 2014 on the role of NYSC ad-hoc teaching staff in 
Kebbi state revealed that reports of cases have been established where 
parents came threatening school heads and Corps teachers because 
their daughters were reportedly taught by the Corps teachers on how 
to maintain personal hygiene, including washing of inner wears 
regularly.  
 
Conclusion and Recommendations 
The NYSC is a laudable Scheme geared towards national integration, 
peaceful coexistence and nation building. Education on the other hand 
is an integral aspect of development and advancement. Majority of the 
Corps members see teaching as a great profession, some actually derive 
pleasure in it. This has led to the absorption of some after the one year 
service. The NYSC Scheme has improved the access to education of 
children especially those in the rural areas Kaduna State. However:  
1. There is need to encourage corps members to pay attention to 
lectures and trainings during the orientation exercises on the 
best practices in teaching. This will serve as an introduction on 
the rudiments of teaching and teaching methods. 
2. There is need for periodic/regular reviews on policies and its 
implementation. The NYSC is a laudable Scheme that has helped 
in fostering peaceful coexistence and understanding of the 
multi ethnicity of Nigeria as a Nation. Regular monitoring of the 
Corps members should be made a priority and strategies on 
how to boost their performance should be mapped out.  
3. There is need to sustain the language classes being introduced 
and taught to Corps members who are posted to the rural 
schools for their primary assignment. This will guide against 
loopholes that may emerge if the teacher and learner do not 
share the same language. 
4. There is need for the key stakeholders to recognize and 
motivate Corps members posted to schools more than those 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                          Abdussalam, Aisha Ajoke 
182 
 
posted to other establishments. This will further boost their 
performance and enshrine in them a sense of gratitude. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Education in Nigeria: 
183 
 
Bibliography  
 
Aba, Aje A. Nigerian Politics, 1999-2009: Images from Chinua Achebe’s 
Mirror. Edited by Joseph Mangut and TerhembaWuam in The 
Press and Literature in the Fourth Republic. Markurdi: Aboki 
Publishers. (2010): 145. 
Bika Kareem, Abraham Ehiorobo. “Assessing The Impact of National 
Youth Service Corps Scheme on Socio-Economic Development 
in Nigeria.” Ilorin Journal of Human Resource Management 
(IJHRM) No.1, (2019): 109-110. 
Ekpiken William E. and Aniefiok O. Ede, “The Role of Teacher Education 
and Nigerian Teachers in National Development: The Way 
Forward”, Higher Education of Social Science 7 no. 1 (2014):140. 
EkpoC.George and Is’haq A. Bello.  “Education: An Effective and 
Efficient Tool for Conflict Management.”African Journal of Allied 
Education,No 1, (2011): 59 – 68. 
Ibe-Basssey Samuel G. “Educational Technology: The teaching-learning 
process & the falling standard of education in Nigeria”. 35th 
Inaugural Lecture series of the University of Uyo. Nigeria. 11-
28. 
IfeanyichukwuAmaka John and Nor Apine. “The Problems and Negative 
Effects of the Use of National Youths Service Corp (NYSC) 
Members as Ad-hoc Teaching Staff in Nigeria: A Case Study of 
Kalgo Local Government Area of Kebbi State.” Journal of 
Research & Method in EducationNo I (November 2014): 1-3. 
Ministry of Education, Science and Technology.“Kaduna State 
Education Policy.” Kaduna State Government, (2019): 6-7. 
Ministry of Youth and Sports Development, “National Policy on Youth; 
Enhancing Youth Development and Participation in the Context 
of Sustainable Development” (2019): 10. 
OkaforChukwuemeka and Johnmary K. Ani, “The National Youth 
Service Corps Programme and Growing Security Threat in 
Nigeria.”Africa’s Development Watch 2 no.2 (2014):153-154. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                          Abdussalam, Aisha Ajoke 
184 
 
OluwalogbonLeke Abraham, “The Future of Nigeria’s National Youth 
Service Corps Programme: Any Hope for National Integration?” 
(2019): 4-13. 
OluwayemiVictorTaiwo. “Assessment of Attitude of Corps Members to 
Teaching in Sokoto Metropolis”. (2016): 24 www.academia.edu 
Onyishi Anthony Obayi “Youth and National Development in Nigeria: 
An Analysis of National Youth Service Scheme: 1999-2009”, 
International Journal of Modern Political Economy 2, no. 1 
(2011): 87-102. 
Osuafor Abigail “Standard of Education in Nigeria: The Role of 
Teachers” 
www.academia.edu/21672409/STANDARD_OF_EDUCATION_I
N_NIGERIA_THE_ROLE_OF_TEACHERS2-3. 
OyebamijiMorufu A. andUmofiaInemesitEssiet. “Influence of the 
Activities of the National Youth Service Corps Scheme on the 
Knowledge of Social Issues in Host Communities in Rivers and 
AkwaIbom States” International Journal of Education and 
Evaluation ISSN 2489-0073 No.1 (2016): 29. 
OzanoPaul B. “Enhancing the Teaching Profession in Nigeria: A 
Historical Perspective.”Academic Journal of Interdisciplinary 
Studies l 2 No 5 (July 2015):51. 
RaymondNjoku and IsigwePaulinusObinna, “The Nigerian Youth and 
National Development: A Prescriptive Exploration”, Journal of 
Public Administration and Social Welfare Researchno. 1 (2019): 
4. 
Sue Heath, Brooks Rachel, Cleaver Elizabeth, Ireland Eleanor. 
Researching Young people’s lives. London: Sage. (2009): 10. 
Uzoma, Chimamkpam Williams, MichealOlusegunFalade,  Ramon Bello, 
“Background Paper on the Nigerian Youth”, The Centre for 
Public Policy Alternative, (2016): 2. 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Role of NYSC in the National Commission for Mass Literacy,... 
185 
 
 11 1111 11    
    The Role of NYSC in the National Commission for 
Mass Literacy, Adult and Non-formal Education, 
(NMEC) Campaign for Mass Literacy 
 
 
Jack Jeremiah 
 
 
Introduction 
Literacy is a right of any individual. This is because literacy enables the 
full participation of the citizens in national development. More so, 
literacy is a significant apparatus for the acceleration of national socio-
economic growth with regard to key priorities and challenges such as 
poverty elimination, HIV/AIDS prevention and mitigation, behavioural 
change regarding gender equality, as well as good government for 
democratic societies. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                            Jack Jeremiah 
186 
 
The significance of a literate populace cannot be overemphasized. An 
educated and skilled workforce is such an ad-on to the economy of any 
society. Literacy can be used as one of the tools for the diminution of 
poverty for sustainable growth of any society. Literacy has a broad 
spectrum of benefits to tap from in order for social, economic and 
political transformations of societies. This is especially so for the rural 
areas. People in the rural areas are prone to poverty, and so, literacy 
can serve as a tool which could liberate them. 
It was against the aforementioned significance of having a literate 
populace that the government of Nigeria under Decree No. 17 of June 
26, 1990 established the National Commission for Mass Literacy, Adult 
and Non-Formal Education, (NMEC). The commission is the Nigerian 
federal Government agency charged with the responsibility of making 
literate all those who for one reason or the other did not or cannot 
benefit from the formal school system. These include out-of-school 
youths, children in the street, women in purdah, victims of teenage 
motherhood (VVF), Nomadic illiterate people, Almajiris and other 
migrant fishing folks. The beneficiaries should be able to use the 
literacy skill acquired in their daily socio-economic activities. 
In order to achieve its aim, the commission collaborates with 
government agencies, states, local governments and non-governmental 
organizations. One of its collaborators is the NYSC scheme. The scheme 
is expected to collaborate with the commission to drive towards mass 
literacy in the country. Nonetheless, NYSC since its inception has been a 
strong tool for the development of the educational sector and had made 
several efforts towards mass literacy in Nigeria. Thus, this study is a 
critique of the role the scheme played in the commission’s objectives 
towards delivering mass literacy in Nigeria. 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Role of NYSC in the National Commission for Mass Literacy,... 
187 
 
The Concept of Illiteracy: 
There are several perceptions as to the concept of illiteracy, but for the 
purpose of this study, the definition illiteracy by the United Nations’ 
Economic, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) would be 
adopted. According to the UNESCO, an illiterate is “a person who 
cannot, with understanding, read and write a simple statement on his 
everyday life; and a functionally illiterate is a person who cannot 
engage in all those activities in which literacy is required for effective 
functioning of his group and community and also for enabling him to 
continue to use reading, writing and calculation for his own and the 
community's development.1 
From this point of view, an illiterate therefore is an individual who 
cannot understand or comprehend written words or symbols and thus 
as an antecedent cannot depict any meaning to it or be able to use it in 
any form of communication. 
However, this definition provided by UNESCO should not be made 
inclusive to the neo-illiterates. The neo-illiterates are anyone who 
today does not possess the requisite skills in computer and internet 
usage. Unfortunately, even in our institutions of higher learning, there 
are many "neo-illiterates". 
Multiple studies like that of Eberle and Robinson2 have asserted that 
those populaces who cannot read and write usually have some self-
esteem issues of some sort, they usually do not have a positive 
perception of themselves.  Eberle and Robinson recorded the following 
utterances of some illiterates in Vermont, U.S.A.: 
“My biggest hurt of all is I feel I have failed my children because I 
couldn't help them with their school work”. 
                                                           1UNESCO The State of Education in Nigeria UNESCO Lagos Office Nigeria. (1998) 2Cited in Nnazor, Reginald,“Adult Education in Nigeria: The Consequencesof 
Neglectand Agenda for Action”, International Education Journal,(2005). 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                            Jack Jeremiah 
188 
 
“If someone handed me a piece of paper to read, I pretended to read it. 
If anyone asked questions, I said everything was alright and that I 
didn't have any questions. I want to write a letter ..., you got to get 
someone to do it for you. Everybody knows my business”. 
“When you don't read, it is like riding a motorcycle with your eyes 
closed, you don't know what is coming up next. The hardest thing about 
it is I've been places where I don't know where I was, if you don't know 
where you are, and you can't read something, you are lost. It sure ain't 
fun to be lost”. 
“How do you go about telling someone you want to marry that you 
can't read? Right? Man, it is like opening a bottle, putting a stick of 
dynamite in it, and hoping it doesn't go off”. 
it should be noted that this effect of not been a literate is relative, that is 
to say, whether in the US or Nigeria, illiterates tend to express a feeling 
of self-disappointment humiliation and a sense of failure arising from 
the embarrassments experienced as an illiterate. 
 
Literacy 
Having studied the concept of illiteracy, it is only justifiable to have a 
look at the antonym of illiteracy which is literacy. As of illiteracy, there 
are numerous definitions as to what the concept of literacy is, however, 
for this study, the definition of literacy by the UNESCO and Persepolis 
Declaration of 1975 is employed. 
The UNESCO defines literacy as: “the ability to identify, understand, 
interpret, create, communicate and compute using printed and written 
materials associated with varying contents. Literacy involves a 
continuum of learning in enabling the individual to achieve his or her 
goals, develop his or her knowledge and potentials, and participate 
fully in the community and wider society. To this may be added a 
further dimension of literacy earlier defined also by the UNESCO in 
1965. This is known as functional literacy or work oriented literacy. It 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Role of NYSC in the National Commission for Mass Literacy,... 
189 
 
is considered to be comprehensive enough to teach economic skills and 
offer immediate use to the recipients in participating in important 
political issues and personal matters.3  This dimension of literacy calls 
for definite programmes and instructional objectives and strategies 
within a context of development which should be part of an over-all 
educational plan in order that the new literates may become active 
members of the society. 
The other definition propounded by the Persepolis Declaration of 1957 
considers literacy to be not just the process of learning the skills of 
reading, writing and arithmetic but a contribution to the liberation of 
man and to his full development. Thus conceived, literacy creates 
conditions for the acquisition of a critical consciousness of the 
contradictions of the society in which one lives. It also stimulates man's 
initiative and his participation in the creation of projects capable of 
acting upon the world, of transforming it, and of defining the aims of an 
authentic human development.4  The ideology highlighted by this 
concept is that of literacy for liberation and the methodology that of 
dialogue based on significant themes relevant to the learner's everyday 
life. 
 
The National Commission for Mass Literacy, Adult And Non-
Formal Education, (NMEC) 
The commission is a constitutional parastatal of the federal 
government of Nigeria which is responsible for making sure individuals 
who are vulnerable to accessing to education are not deprived of it. 
They are charged with making sure the vulnerable populace is 
educated and made literates. The vulnerable populace in this context 
                                                           3Cited in D.UEgonu. Approaches to Adult Literacy. Onitsha:Cape Publishers 
International Ltd,1998 4Leon Bataille. A Turning Point for Literacy. Adult Education for Development the 
Spirit and Declaration of Persepolis. Elsevier Ltd, 1976.  
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                            Jack Jeremiah 
190 
 
include: out-of-school youths, children in the street, women in purdah, 
victims of teenage motherhood (VVF), Nomadic illiterate people, 
Almajiris and other migrant fishing folks. When and if the vulnerable 
populace access education, they are to use the literacy skill acquired in 
their daily socio-economic activities.5 
The National Commission for Mass Literacy, Adult and Non-Formal 
Education, (NMEC) was established under Decree No. 17 of June 26, 
1990. However, the commission did not immediately take off on 
activities in full until a year later on July, 5, 1999 when the governing 
board of the commission under the Chairmanship of Chief A. Y. Eke was 
eventually inaugurated by the then Minister of Education, Professor 
Aliu Babatunde Fafunwa.6  
From the onset of its establishment, the commission was deployed with 
the vision to eradicate all types of illiteracy and also provide Non-
Formal education within the context of Lifelong Learning for 
Sustainable Development. The commission was tasked with the 
mission to develop and sustain mass education for an enduring 
learning society as a critical leaver for self-reliance and national 
development. In order to achieve this, the commission pursued a broad 
spectrum of objectives which are to; develop policies and strategies 
aimed at eradicating illiteracy in Nigeria; monitor and standardize 
implementation of Mass Literacy delivery in Nigeria; network with 
local and international stakeholders to actualize the vision of the 
Commission; produce self-reliant neo-literates through skill acquisition 
and functional literacy; create awareness on the importance of literacy 
and non-formal education and encourage participation on a more 
sustained basis; solicit the cooperation of all stakeholders in the task of 
making all Nigerians literate; develop literacy programmes with special 
                                                           5NMEC. Who We 
Are.https://nmec.ng,org/What%20We%20Are%20%20National%20Commission%
20For%20Mass%20Literacy,%20Adult%20&%20Non-Formal%20Education.html 6NMEC. Who We Are 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Role of NYSC in the National Commission for Mass Literacy,... 
191 
 
attention to disadvantaged groups such as women, the marginalized, 
rural dwellers and out-of-school children; and to collaborate with 
states, local governments and non-governmental organizations 
including other stakeholders in implementing literacy, non-formal and 
continuing education programmes in Nigeria.7 
To be effective in following up with its mission and objectives, the 
commissions’ proposed activities are facilitated through six zonal 
offices in each of the six geopolitical zones of the country; North-East - 
Bauchi; North West - Katsina; North Central - Minna; South West - 
Ibadan; South - Benin; South East - Owerri and a National 
Documentation Centre for Adult Education located in Kano, which was 
established to train middle and lower level adult personnel in the 
country and to develop and produce teaching and learning materials in 
literacy and Non- Formal Education. Furthermore, the Commission 
supervises and supports the activities of State Agencies for Adult and 
Non-Formal Education in the 36 states and the Federal Capital 
Territory (FCT). 
Furthermore, the commission has four main programmes that guides 
its activities. The four main programmers are, Basic Literacy, Post 
Literacy, and Continuing Education and Vocational Education. Basic 
Literacy equivalence of pry 1-3 is the Literacy programme organised 
for beginners or for people considered to be stark illiterates; the people 
that have never been to school before.8 
Post Literacy equivalence of pry 4-6 is on reading, writing and 
computing for people that have got the basic rudiment of computing 
and writing but want to learn more. The objectives of Post Literacy are 
to assist learners master social lives. Continuing Education/Extra Mural 
Studies equivalence of JSS 1-3 and above is an educational programme 
organised for learners that would want to sit for external examination 
                                                           7NMEC. Who We Are 8NMEC. Who We Are 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                            Jack Jeremiah 
192 
 
like JSSCE or SSCE. The objectives of this programme are to assist 
learners catch up and complete the Junior /Senior Secondary School 
Examination and develop themselves to meet the changing society and 
be able to make meaningful career choices. The last of them is the 
Vocational Education which is the introduction of the integrated 
approach to meaningful literacy activities. It is a major break-through 
in mass literacy delivery. This programme provides vocational courses 
for the benefits of early school leavers who are assisted to become 
more self-reliant in different artisan trades.9 
Furthermore, the commission consist of several organs which oversee 
its activities. Taking a top down approach, the commission is headed by 
the Executive secretaries who at the same time double as a member of 
the governing body of the commission. He is responsible for the overall 
management of the commission. The functions of the office of the 
Executive Secretary include: Being responsible for the day-to-day 
administration of the Commission; Formulating and coordinating the 
execution of policy guidelines for the successful eradication of illiteracy 
nationwide; Ensuring effective monitoring of inputs from the Federal 
Government, International Development Partners, Non-Governmental 
Organizations, and the organized private sector into the 
implementation of mass literacy, adult and non-formal education 
programmes; Presenting periodic progress reports on the 
implementation of mass literacy adult and non-formal education 
programmes to the Honourable Minister of Education; Liaising with the 
Honourable Minister of Education and the National Assembly on 
matters of funding and implementation of mass literacy programme;  
Sustaining cordial relationship and cooperation with State Agencies for 
Mass Education and other stakeholders; Pursuing mobilization 
campaigns for effective participation in literacy, adult and non-formal 
education programmes; Supervising activities in the Legal Office, Office 
                                                           9NMEC. Who We Are 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Role of NYSC in the National Commission for Mass Literacy,... 
193 
 
of Special Adviser/Technical Adviser, Public Relations/Protocol, Desk 
Officer Zonal Offices, Internal Audit, and Procurement Unit; and 
Coordinating and supervising the activities of the Zonal Offices of the 
Commission and the Kano Centre for Adult Education. More so, there 
are other six departments which are headed by directors who are 
directly responsible to report to the executive secretary. 10 
 
The task of NYSC towards Achieving Mass Literacy.  
From the early years of the schemes’ establishment, the agency had 
made several efforts towards mass literacy campaigns even before the 
formation of The National Commission for Mass Literacy, Adult and 
Non-Formal Education, (NMEC). Adult literacy and extra mural classes 
were organised often all over the country. The Corps members were 
actively involved in the government’s policies towards promoting 
literacy in the country, one of which was the Each-One-Teach-One 
(EOTO) mass literacy programme of the Federal Government in the 
early days after the attainment of the country’s independence.11 
From the establishment of NYSC, the impact the scheme has had on the 
education sector of Nigeria is tremendous. It is arguably the most 
dependable source of manpower supply to schools in Nigeria. Gregory 
and Gabriel12argued that out of the 40,000 Corps members who serve 
from the establishment of the agency to 1990, 70% had served in the 
educational sector in Nigeria as instructors, teachers, and much of its 
likes. The Literacy level and even the standard of education in Nigeria 
had witnessed positive development regardless of the actions or 
inactions of the government and lecturers to frustrate the students. 
Without doubt, the scheme has contributed to the supply of manpower 
to primary, post-primary and tertiary institutions all over Nigeria. The 
                                                           10NMEC. Who We Are 11G. Enegwea and G. Umoden. NYSC: Twenty Years of National Service. Lagos: 
Gambuno Publishing Company, 1993 12G. Enegwea and G. Umoden. NYSC: Twenty Years of National Service.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                            Jack Jeremiah 
194 
 
federal government policy as well as deployment policy which 
emphasizes that annual 60-70% of Corps members should be posted to 
educational sector has had a major impact on mass literacy in Nigeria. 
From studies embarked and feedbacks, it has been agreed that the 
manpower the scheme stimulates in the education sector in Nigeria has 
specifically helped in sustaining schools especially those in the rural 
areas. By the kind of training given to NYSC Corps members, he/she is 
capable to serve in almost any part of the country. So, it is safe to say 
that the scheme has greatly contributed to the educational sector of 
Nigeria. It is of course an established fact that NYSC has contributed a 
lot and has filled in a reasonable gap when it comes to the educational 
sector in Nigeria. Corps members are posted to rural places to teach. Of 
all the impacts the NYSC had made on every sector in Nigeria, the 
impact on the educational sector stands out. 
One of the objectives of the National Commission For Mass Literacy, 
Adult And Non-Formal Education (NMEC) is to develop policies and 
strategies aimed at eradicating illiteracy in Nigeria.13  As part of the 
collaborators of the commission, the NYSC is somewhat obligated to 
develop policies at the Community Development Service (CDS) level 
and effectively implement these policies in order to eradicate illiteracy 
in Nigeria. These policies could be implemented at the community level 
through the various CDS groups specifically relevant to the promotion 
of mass literacy in Nigeria like the Mass Literacy CDS group. The 
objectives of the NMEC stressed that the commission and its 
collaborators such as NYSC develop literacy programmes but with 
specifications to the disadvantaged groups such as women, the 
                                                           13NMEC. Who We Are.https://NYSC/What%20We%20Are%20-
%20National%20Commission%20For%20Mass%20Literacy,%20Adult%20&%20No
n-Formal%20Education.html 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Role of NYSC in the National Commission for Mass Literacy,... 
195 
 
marginalised, rural dwellers and out of school children.14  The table 
below15 shows the efforts of the Corps members towards this feat;  
SN PROJECT/PROGRAMMES  
1 Organisation of Mass Literacy Classes to women at Bauchi State  
2 Vocational/Entrepreneurship training and counselling of 
physically challenged, prison inmates in Bayelsa State. 
3 Free mural classes to children in Onoppa, Bayelsa state  
4 Mass Adult Literacy campaign in Bakassi camp, Azikoro, Bayelsa  
5 Organisation of mass adult literacy classes in Opolo 
6 Organisation of extra mural classes at Otuokpe, Bayelsa  
7 Free extra mural classes to the less privilege in English Language, 
Mathematics, and Basic Science in Cross Rivers.   
8 Free adult classes for women in Imo state  
9 Vocational training of the Physically challenged, prison inmates 
etc in Kano State 
10 Extra mural classes for students of GSS, Rawayau, Katsina State 
11 Vocational training for prison inmates  
12 Training of rural women and youths on self-empowerment 
schemes  
13 Campaigns on girl-child education   
14 Mass literacy campaigns in Rivers state 
15 Adult educational programmes in Rivers State 
16 Reskilling and training of rural women in craftsmanship   
17 Training of rural women and youths on self-employment in Yobe 
state   
 
                                                           14NMEC. Who We Are. 15It should be noted that the data on the table provided does not represens all the 
mass literacy campaigns efforts of the NYSC Corpss Members but a compilation of 
some of those projects by the researcher.    
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                            Jack Jeremiah 
196 
 
A close look at the functions of the commission would show that the 
NYSC scheme has, in fact, tailored some of its activities to become 
relevant to the commission’s functions. The NYSC works in 
collaboration with all concerned to eradicate illiteracy in Nigeria. 
Through its CDS groups, with the help of the community and the 
appropriate agencies of the Federal, State Governments, the 
Universities and Non-Governmental Agencies to design and promote 
strategies and programmes for the conduct and implementation of the 
National Mass Literacy Campaign. The Corps members had also been 
involved in the dissemination of teaching materials to educational 
programmes to facilitate education in various societies which is one of 
the core functions of the organisation.16  Example of such acts could be 
found in almost every part of the country. The table below17 is evidence 
of the efforts of the NYSC Corps members towards the dissemination of 
school materials;  
SN PROJECTS/PROGRAMMES 
1 Donation of chalkboards and cartons of chalk to Daughters of 
Mary Mother of Mercy Compassion Home and Nursery/Primary 
School, Ahiaeke Ndume, Umuahia  
2 Construction of a science laboratory. Donation of books to St 
Michael primary School, Obulo-Eziama 
3 Construction of classroom block at Lodu Ndume, IbekuAfara, 
Community, Umuahia North LGA. Organisation of adult literacy 
classes at Lodundume, Ibeku, Umuahia North 
4 Establishment of Science Lab at Achara, Abia State  
 
                                                           16NMEC. Who We Are.https://What%20We%20Are%20-
%20National%20Commission%20For%20Mass%20Literacy,%20Adult%20&%20No
n-Formal%20Education.html 17It should be noted that the data on the table provided does not represens all the 
mass literacy campaigns efforts of the NYSC Corpss Members but a compilation of 
some of those projects by the researcher.    
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Role of NYSC in the National Commission for Mass Literacy,... 
197 
 
5 Provision of 100 desks for Command Day Secondary School, 
Army Barracks, Yola.  
6 Donation of library chairs and school uniforms an Akwa Ibom. 
7 Construction of 40 benches with lockers for JSS students  
8 Construction and donation of 100 benches and desks in 
Command Children School, Bauchi State 
9 Donation of computers to Ikibiri School, Bayelsa State 
10 Provision of computers to Government Secondary School, Kway 
Kusar 
11 Provision of School uniforms for the less privilege in five primary 
school in Delta State 
12 Construction and donation of 6X4 foot laboratory storage shelf in 
Ebonyi State 
13 Donation of computer sets and computer literacy materials in 
Edo State. 
14 Donation of copies of relevant textbooks and desk to rural 
schools in Ekiti State 
15 Donation of computers, printers, and other accessories to 
secondary schools, Ondo State 
 
Indeed, numerous researchers had viably argued that the challenge 
Nigeria is facing is not about policy making but about how well those 
policies are followed through, implemented, monitored and evaluated 
and most times, the resources to effect those policies. However, in 
regards to resources needed, the NYSC has been seen to possess the 
needed human resources as well as the capacity needed to delivering 
Mass Literacy in every community of the country and thus, serve as a 
leverage for the scheme in efforts regarding achieving NMEC aim 
towards mass literacy. Furthermore, Abhuere18 argues that there’s the 
                                                           18J.IAbhuere. NYSC: Historical and Theoretical Background Context for National 
Unity. In D Danfulani and A. Aja (Eds). NYSC in its Fourth Decade: A Strategic Policy 
Outfit for National Development. Ibadan: Spectrum, 2008. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                            Jack Jeremiah 
198 
 
willingness by the Nigerian youth to be involved in nation building 
initiative by the government. The concluded 2011, 2015 and 2019 
elections are evidence of the youth’s willingness to participate in 
national growth even if it means putting their life at risk.  
In respect to the aforementioned, Danfulani19 opined that if we must 
admit, in the theology of scientific extrapolations, the youths in any 
nation must obviously strive for self-realization with a view to 
contributing their possible best in the services of their country, so we 
must totally agree that the dynamism of that youth should have, as its 
finality, the indispensable objective of building a strong, united-self-
reliant nation. This assertion was in line with the establishment of the 
NYSC in the early years after the civil war. More so, the purpose of the 
scheme is to grow in the mind of the youth the spirit of selfless service 
to the country and to the community at large. NYSC can help drive the 
vision towards mass literacy in Nigeria in terms of teaching and 
organizing adult education programmes, vocational classes, and extra 
mural lessons for the targeted group. Corps members can also help in 
adult education centres at different local government councils in 
Nigeria by providing skill acquisition training to their host 
communities. 
More so, as organizing the community for development tends to be 
challenging in Nigeria especially when it comes to social initiatives like 
that of mass literacy, NYSC can use its human resources to fill in this 
gap in community development. The Corps members serving in 
different local governments can come together and organize the 
community through their leaders, identify their needs, help them 
gather available resources and, if need be, seek support from the 
government towards achieving mass literacy development campaign 
                                                           19 D. S. C. Danfulani. NYSC and its Strategic Confidence Building Mechanisms for 
National development. In D Danfulani and A. Aja (Eds). NYSC in its Fourth Decade: 
A Strategic Policy Outfit for National Development. Ibadan: Spectrum, 2008.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Role of NYSC in the National Commission for Mass Literacy,... 
199 
 
projects in the communities which could reduce the level of illiteracy in 
the country through organization of mediums for mass education. This 
is possible as asserted in previous paragraphs that the youths have an 
enthusiasm towards nation building and are willing to offer their 
services without any reward for community development. It is, 
therefore, very important to intensify the efforts of the NYSC towards 
the accelerated delivery of mass literacy and adult education 
progammes in Nigeria. This action would see the government benefit 
from this worthy initiative as it would also reduce cost on what they 
spend on community development, in this case, mass literacy 
programmes. 
The government also recognizes the significant role NYSC plays in mass 
literacy in Nigeria. On numerous occasions, they had made efforts to 
boost the manpower of the educational sector through deployment of 
Corps Members to serve in, especially, vulnerable areas where there is 
a shortcoming in regards to manpower for the actualization of mass 
literacy in the country, for example, in reviving the education sector by 
deploying more Corps members in rural schools. The Zamfara State 
Coordinator of the scheme, Mallam Ballama Bello, also agreed with this 
argument when he made a remark in an interview with the News 
Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Gusau. More so, he recognized the fact that 
most of the schools in rural communities in Nigeria have a challenge of 
getting access to education in the country and chief of this challenge is 
the inadequacy of teachers. So, the posting of Corps members to 
various schools in the rural area would do a lot to contribute to mass 
literacy in Nigeria.20 
It was in respect of the significance role the Scheme plays in the 
educational sector in Nigeria that the law makers of the House of 
Representatives were moved to amend the National Youth Service 
                                                           20 Vanguard Newspaper. Why NYSC is Deploying More Corpss Members in Rural 
Schools. December 20, 2016.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                            Jack Jeremiah 
200 
 
Corps (NYSC) Act to prioritize the deployment of Corps members to 
schools. Furthermore, the House resolved to “commence the process of 
amending the National Youth Service Corps Act to establish a 
programme to identify, recruit and train willing, capable and promising 
young Nigerians to serve as teachers in under- served areas.”The 
Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, noted that the House chose to consider the 
matter of the millions of out-of-school children and who, as a result, are 
denied their fundamental right to receive the training and skills 
acquisition opportunities.21 
As per the role of NYSC in NMEC efforts to increase mass literacy in the 
country, Corps Members could resort to embarking on library projects 
as a priority. The library serves as a memory store for human 
intellectual collections and achievements which are normally done in a 
form of graphic records. More so, libraries function on two main factors 
which are information and communication.22 If literacy means the 
ability to inform and be informed, then the library is a formidable 
instrument for promoting literacy in society.  
To illustrate the preceding assertion, in the ancient and medieval 
periods, people were taught how to read and write in libraries. At 
present, libraries are still being used as centres for conducting literacy 
classes as well as providing graphic records to facilitate teaching and 
learning. Libraries can also be used to improve knowledge and skills. 
Considering the aim of the National Commission for Mass Literacy, 
Adult and Non-Formal Education (NMEC), NYSC can complement the 
efforts of the commission by making library projects a priority. Aside 
that, the library can be used to promote mass literacy in Nigeria by the 
NYSC through several strategies. One of the strategies the NYSC Corps 
                                                           21 Abdul Seye. Reps to Amend NYSC Act to Deploy More Corpss Members to 
School. Daily Post newspaper. March 12, 2020 22GbadeboOyeniranOyelekan, “Promoting Mass Literacy Campaigns through 
Library Service in Nigeria”,  
New Library World, Vol. 94.1109, (1993): 14-19 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Role of NYSC in the National Commission for Mass Literacy,... 
201 
 
members can use is to have a clear assessment of the information 
needs of the people in the area with specifications to the people and 
also examine how to effectively pass this information to the populace in 
the area they plan on embarking a library project. For example, in the 
rural areas, Aboyade23 identified the information needs of rural 
dwellers; these include information on health, agriculture, politics, job 
opportunities, etc. Since most of these people are illiterate, information 
communicated through print media will not have any relevance to their 
needs. And since print media would not have any relevant to these set 
of individuals, it is advised the Corps members innovate such strategies 
as of acquiring non print media such as radio, television, film, and other 
audio-visual materials as channels for communicating information to 
those who are illiterate.  
In assisting the commission to reach its target of literacy, the NYSC can 
establish a network of libraries all over the country especially in rural 
areas where literacy level is very low. This would enable the masses 
access those libraries especially among the vulnerable populace and 
achieve a lot when it comes to NMEC’s vision towards achieving mass 
literacy in Nigeria.  
It would also enable other agents of mass literacy campaigns such as 
Mass Mobilization for Social Justice and Economic Recovery 
(MAMSER), Directorate of Food, Roads and Rural Infrastructure (DFRI), 
etc. to use library facilities to reach out to the people. 
 
Conclusion 
The pertinent role which the National Youth Service Scheme has played 
in mass education cannot be over-emphasised. This has led to the 
recognition of the NYSC as a major collaborator of the education sector 
by the Nigerian government. The impact of the Scheme on the 
                                                           23 B.O. Aboyade. The Provision of Information for Rural Developments. Ibadan: 
Fountain Publications, 1987. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                            Jack Jeremiah 
202 
 
education sector of Nigeria is tremendous, as they have not only 
channelled their efforts towards mass education which include the 
education of the less privileged child, but their activities also extended 
to adults, orphans, vocational training for prison inmates among others. 
More so, it can be said that the society has been a sole beneficiary of 
these activities, because these trainings help reduced the rate of crime 
and juvenile delinquency among the teeming youths in the society as 
they found reasons to learn and be beneficial to the society they lived 
in. This study found out that the National Youth Service Scheme has 
contributed to mass literacy and various facets of the educational 
sector. That is, not limiting to formal education attain in the class room 
alone but also informal education.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Role of NYSC in the National Commission for Mass Literacy,... 
203 
 
Reference 
 
Abdul Seye. Reps to Amend NYSC Act to Deploy More Corpss Members 
to School. Daily Post newspaper. March 12, 2020 
Abhuere J.I. NYSC: Historical and Theoretical Background Context for 
National Unity. In D Danfulani and A. Aja (Eds). NYSC in its 
Fourth Decade: A Strategic Policy Outfit for National 
Development. Ibadan: Spectrum, 2008. 
Aboyade B. O. The Provision of Information for Rural Developments. 
Ibadan: Fountain Publications, 1987. 
Danfulani D. S. C.. NYSC and its Strategic Confidence Building 
Mechanisms for National development. In D Danfulani and A. 
Aja (Eds). NYSC in its Fourth Decade: A Strategic Policy Outfit 
for National Development. Ibadan: Spectrum, 2008.  
Egonu D.U. Approaches to Adult Literacy. Onitsha: Cape Publishers 
International Ltd,1998 
Enegwea G. and Umoden. G. NYSC: Twenty Years of National Service. 
Lagos: Gambuno Publishing Company, 1993 
Gbadebo Oyeniran Oyelekan, “Promoting Mass Literacy Campaigns 
through Library Service in Nigeria”, New Library World, Vol. 
94.1109, (1993): 14-19 
Leon Bataille. A Turning Point for Literacy. Adult Education for 
Development the Spirit and Declaration of Persepolis. Elsevier 
Ltd, 1976.  
NMEC. Who We Are.https://nmec.ng,org/What%20We%20Are% 
20%20National%20Commission%20For%20Mass%20Literacy
,%20Adult%20&%20Non-Formal%20Education.html 
 Nnazor, Reginald,“Adult Education in Nigeria: The Consequencesof 
Neglectand Agenda for Action”, International Education 
Journal,(2005). 
UNESCO The State of Education in Nigeria UNESCO Lagos Office 
Nigeria. (1998) 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                            Jack Jeremiah 
204 
 
Vanguard Newspaper. Why NYSC is Deploying More Corpss Members 
in Rural Schools. December 20, 2016. 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Role of NYSC in Facilitating Mass Literacy in Nigeria 
205 
 
 11 1122 22    
    The Role of NYSC in Facilitating Mass Literacy in 
Nigeria 
 
 
Adeniji Olawale Abayomi 
and 
 Safiya Abu Wada 
 
 
Introduction 
The main thing that separates developed from underdeveloped 
countries is a gap in knowledge. Education is a pivotal for development 
in any nation,1 and that is why investment in education through mass 
                                                           1  MA Oyebamiji and Inenesit Essiet Umofia, “Influence of the Activities of the 
National Youth Service Corps Scheme on the Knowledge of Social Issues in Host 
Communities in Rivers and Akwa Ibom States”, International Journal Of Education 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                        A. O. Abayomi and S. A. Wada 
206 
 
literacy becomes important. Though, scholars have argued that when 
reference to development is mentioned, they refer to quality education 
for all.2 On a contrary however, the position of other scholars are on no 
correlation between literacy and national integration or development. 
While opinion of some scholars dwell on the believe that exposure to 
literacy is enough (not necessarily qualifies), their belief was that not 
everyone can get quality education. Nevertheless, most work and 
experience from countries around the world shows there is a need to 
educate a vast or majority of the citizens to enable them understand 
and translate the workings of the country into reliable effort.3 Using UK, 
US, Canada and other countries in central Europe as an example, it is 
generally believed that Illiteracy is a major developmental challenge, 
which means that only a literate nation can make greater strides 
towards development. 
In Nigeria, the importance of education to national development and 
integration started gaining ground from the period before its 
independence by nationalists.4 After independence, the federal 
government of Nigeria took great steps to improve the level of literacy 
in the nation through the educational programmes, institutions, and the 
mass media.5 Government embarked on several policies that gave 
needed attention to educational programmes to ensure mass literacy in 
the country. Most of these programmes are not limited to Universal 
Primary Education, Universal Basic Education, but also National 
commission for Mass Literacy and Adult Education in 1973.  
                                                                                                                                       
and Evaluation, Vol.2, No.1, International Institute of Academic Research and 
Development, 2016, 1 2 Kingdom E. Orji and Maekae Job, “the Role of Education in National 
Development: Nigerian Experience”, European Scientific Journal vol.9, No.28, 
October 2013, 315 ISSN 1875-7431 3 a case in point is the United Kingdom. 4 Hauwa Imam, “Education Policy in Nigeria from the Colonial Era to the Post-
Independence”, Italian Journal of Sociology of Education, Vol.1, 2012, 184. 5 Oyebamiji and Inenesit, Op cit. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Role of NYSC in Facilitating Mass Literacy in Nigeria 
207 
 
The National Youth Service Corps scheme is one of the informal ways 
that the federal government has used to rebuild the decaying unity and 
educational system in the country, especially to bring equal 
opportunities in education, literacy, unity and development to the 
communities of the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital 
Territory. It was put in place in an effort to bring attention to the social 
issues of the country and provide solutions to them. At first, Corps 
members were mostly posted to schools in remote rural area to 
complement the efforts of government schools that are overburdened.6  
By this, the scheme ensures that each graduate who is defined as youth 
serve in different parts of the country for a compulsory one-year 
period. Section 9, sub-section 2 of the NYSC Act, Cap. N84, Laws of the 
Federation of Nigeria 2004 provides for these Corps members to be 
posted to schools7 as places of primary assignment for the one-year 
period they are to serve the nation. The youths (Corps member) were 
inspired to selflessly serve the communities of the nation and express 
the spirit of unity and brotherhood, regardless of culture and social 
position.  
However, since its inception, NYSC through its Corps members have 
made remarkable progress in bringing literacy to places that have 
never been reached. Corps members have devoted themselves to 
prisoner’s education, dilapidated classrooms have been rebuilt, 
educational materials were supplied and adult education has been 
fostered, and general literacy rate, though could not be totally 
quantified, has improved. However, with these efforts, Nigeria illiteracy 
                                                           6 Adeola J Afolayan, Anthony M Nzoka, Emmanuel B Tapshay, Yunusa Tanimu, 
Tunde Ajayi and Shehu B Harris, Selected Speeches and Strides of the 18th NYSC 
Director-General Brig Gen. S Ibrahim, The Special Duties Department, NYSC 
Headquaters: Abuja, (May, 2020),84. 7 Though it has been expanded to other public and private institutions, majority of 
the Corps member serve in Schools. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                        A. O. Abayomi and S. A. Wada 
208 
 
rate is still at 62.02%,8  the future is quite blurry for effective 
development in a post-covid-19 era and fast technology developing 
world.9 
It is with this that this chapter examines the role of National Youth 
Service Corps scheme on the mass literacy in Nigeria. The objective is 
to establish the extent at which activities of the Corps members have 
improved mass literacy in Nigeria; the challenges and way forward. To 
achieve this, the chapter relied on a balanced use of both primary and 
secondary sources of data, the finding was presented using analytical 
and descriptive approach. It argues that, with the activities of Corps 
members, NYSC has made remarkable progress in the reduction of 
illiteracy in Nigeria; that the setbacks are due to inadequacies in the so-
called partnership with both government and private agencies involved 
in mass literacy in Nigeria. Finally, the chapter maintains that using 
NYSC as a key partner for actualising mass literacy in the country 
would go a long way in reducing the human and material burden posed 
by private partners for government and the commission to achieve 
their objectives. 
 
Mass Literacy 
According to the United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural 
Organisation (UNESCO), the word literacy has a meaning that has 
surpassed its conventional definition of being a set of reading, writing 
and counting skills. The term is now expanded to reflect the changing 
world global system as being but not limited to identification, 
understanding, interpretation, creation and communication in an 
increasing digital, text-mediated, information-rich and fast changing 
                                                           8  Max Rose and Esteban Ortiz Ospina, Literacy, Our world in Data, 2013. 
https://ourworldindata.org/literacy.  9 United Nations Literacy Decade: International Strategic Framework for Action, 
2009, 4. Unesdoc.unesco.org 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Role of NYSC in Facilitating Mass Literacy in Nigeria 
209 
 
world.10 Literacy is an important factor for sustainable development 
that enables greater participation in the labour market, improved child 
and family health and nutrition, reduces poverty and expand life 
opportunities. Mass literacy on the other hand is when majority or all 
of the population of a country, community or society have basic ability 
to read or write in any language common to them in such a way that 
they can understand the information passed between them. These 
majorities of the population should also have the ability to key into 
their own development as well use the technology available to them 
with this basic knowledge.  Mass literacy education is a part of adult 
educations that involves the literacy campaign with its major targets, 
the vast population, irrespective of their location in the country or 
community. This is to enable them gain basic knowledge to key into the 
different aspect of development that exist in their country and ensure 
their ability to understand and translate in the positive way possible 
the vast available data that is circulating. This will also enable them to 
differentiate and make reference when necessary to available sources 
to prevent being misled particularly in this era of globalization and 
terrorism. This is why literacy is seen as an important tool and a means 
that will enable people key in fully in the 21st century digital society 
with its continuous advancement in technology, so as to be able to learn 
and adapt to these changes as they affect all spheres of life.11 
 
Mass literacy in Nigeria and the role of National Commission for 
Mass Literacy, Adult and Non-Formal Education in Nigeria 
Literacy in Nigerian dates as far back as the period the independent 
nation states in the country started to have relations with the Arab 
Muslim traders from North-Africa. Among these traders were those 
                                                           10 United Nations Literacy Decade: International Strategic Framework for Action, 
2009, Unesdoc.unesco.org/themes/literacy-all  11  Bethany Oxford, literate school: Redefining Literacy in the 21st Century, 
September 22, 2018, retrieved from medium.com/literate-school/redefining-
literacy-in-the-21st-century. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                        A. O. Abayomi and S. A. Wada 
210 
 
knowledgeable in the Islamic religion and who used the medium of 
their trade interactions to teach some of the people they came across 
and some were actual Islamic scholars propagating the religion, by 
teaching them the Qur’an and Arabic language in Africa. These 
teachings were done to enable the converts read and understand the 
scripture. Also, during the era of the Christian Missionaries, the people 
of the country were taught how to read and write to enable them 
understand the scripture. This shows that being literate during this 
period was not to key into the development of the community or 
society but to enable them understand the various teachings of the 
religions introduced to them.12 A new importance to being literate was 
introduced in the country during the colonial era. Most of the people 
who worked hand in hand in the running of the various colonies with 
colonial masters were those who were fast in understanding the 
colonial language as well as read it. During the world wars, colonial 
masters started to make it a priority to ensure that adult males in their 
colonies were able to understand the basic English language. This was 
to enable them understand and communicate on the battle ground. As a  
result, they embarked on massive literacy campaign. This is largely 
because of the Memorandum on education Policy in 1925 by the British 
in tropical Africa which led to the adoption of adult education.13 
Mass literacy in Nigeria started after plans had been put in place by the 
department of education when the country through her colonial master 
keyed into the United Nations international decade for ending illiteracy 
campaign in 1940. By 1944, mass literacy had commenced in the 
country with the use of district head as well as both Christian and 
                                                           12  Hauwa Imam, “Education Policy in Nigeria from the Colonial Era to the Post-
Independence”, Italian Journal of Sociology of Education, Vol.1, 2012, 186 13  Thomas Fasokun and Cecilia Pwol, National and Regional Reflections on 
Operationalising the Benchmarks/ Nigeria: the Current situation within the 
Framework of the International Benchmarks,  DVV International, accessed from 
htts://www.dvv-international.de/en/adult-education-and-development/editions. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Role of NYSC in Facilitating Mass Literacy in Nigeria 
211 
 
Muslim missionaries.14 The reason for ensuring the vast majority of the 
adults in the country understand to read, write and communicate 
during this period was not aimed at ensuring the development of the 
colonies but to make the running of these colonies easy for the British 
officials. This made the literacy campaign to be short lived. 
However, the importance of education was given priority after the 
world wars particularly in Nigeria. Mass literacy in the country 
therefore, gained much recognition after her independence mostly due 
to the need to ensure that everyone contributed to the development of 
the country and, after the civil war (1967-1970) for people to 
understand the importance of the country remaining united.15 This led 
to various efforts to ensure that every individual in the country was 
able to at least gain basic knowledge to communicate and possibly read 
and write.16 Literacy during this period was to enable the people to 
understand the differing information that were spread in the country in 
the manner they were supposed to. This shows the difference in the 
importance of education in develop and developing countries.  
The efforts of the Federal Government of Nigeria at mass literacy 
commenced in 1982 as a national policy to last for ten years from 
1982-1992.17 The period therefore marked the birth of the Commission 
For Mass literacy and Adult Education in the country to ensure that 
groups and individuals in communities that were least developed and 
disadvantaged especially in the rural areas could contribute in their 
                                                           14  Helen Ebunooluwa Adebola, ”The Public Policy Challenges of Mass Literacy, 
Adult and Non-Formal Education in the Global Age”, perspectives on Globalisation, 
Development Policy, Afro Euro Centre for Development Studies, 2008, 1047-1048.    
ISBN 978 84 612 8474 0 15  Hauwa Imam, “Education Policy in Nigeria from the Colonial Era to the Post-
Independence”, Italian Journal of Sociology of Education, Vol.1, 2012, 185 16  Giving credence to the traditional definition of literacy: the ability to read and 
write and pos 17  Helen Ebunooluwa Adebola,” The Public Policy Challenges of Mass Literacy,  
1048 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                        A. O. Abayomi and S. A. Wada 
212 
 
own little quota to the development of the country effectively wherever 
they found themselves.18 
The National Commission for Mass literacy, Adult and Non-Formal 
Education was established as a parastatal under the Ministry of 
Education by the Decree 17 of the military regime on 26th June 1990. 
The commission commenced operation on the 5th July 1991 with the 
inauguration of its Governing board by the then Minister of Education, 
Professor Aliu Babatunde Fafunwa, in Lagos. The commission is to 
ensure that all those citizens in the country who for one reason or the 
other cannot afford and attend the formal school system are provided 
with an opportunity at it in an informal way. As a result, the 
commission is saddled with the following broad responsibilities; 
a- Develop policies and strategies aimed at eradicating illiteracy in 
Nigeria. 
b- Monitor and standardize implementation of mass literacy 
delivery in Nigeria. 
c- Network with local and international stakeholders to actualize 
the vision of the commission. 
d- Produce self-reliant neo-literates through skill acquisition and 
functional literacy. 
e- Create awareness on the importance of literacy and non-formal 
education and encourage participation on a more sustained 
basis. 
f- Solicit the cooperation of all stakeholders in the task of making 
all Nigerians literate. 
g- Develop literacy programmes with special attention to 
disadvantaged group such as women, the marginalized rural 
dwellers and out-of-school children. 
h- Collaborate with states, local governments and non-
governmental organisations including other stakeholders in 
                                                           18  Helen Ebunooluwa Adebola,” The Public Policy Challenges of Mass Literacy,  
1048 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Role of NYSC in Facilitating Mass Literacy in Nigeria 
213 
 
implementing literacy, non-formal and continuing education 
programmes in Nigeria.19 
The commission has six zonal offices. The Kano centre also supervises 
and supports the activities of states agencies for Adult and non-formal 
education in 36 states along with the Federal Capital Territory.20 
Though, in Nigeria, we recognize that literacy is a right. We know that 
literacy has been recognized internationally as both a human right and 
a crucial tool for pursuing other rights through our involvement in 
various international conferences and meetings where such statements 
are made from time to time.21However, illiteracy remains a major 
problem in Nigeria. Nigeria's most recent data show an adult literacy 
rate of 62 percent, according to the 2018 Global Monitoring Report 
(71.3 percent for men and 52.7 percent for women), a significant 
10.94% increase from 2008.22 The illiterate population is more than 40 
million, of which 75 percent are women. In other words, none of 
Nigeria's literacy programs have yielded the desired results, and 
millions of people continue to be denied access to literacy due to a lack 
of successful educational policies. 
Despite the efforts of UNESCO (Nigeria) in literacy education in Nigeria, 
an ongoing review of the International Adult Literacy Benchmarks 
shows that Nigeria is still not working within the framework 
prescribed for adult literacy programmes. Up to now, Nigeria's literacy 
                                                           19  National Commission for Mass Literacy, Adult and Non-formal Education, 
assessed from nmec.gov.ng 20  Kano State Agency for Mass Education was created in 1980, making it the first 
post–independence state government to create an autonomous agency 
responsible for adult and non–formal education. The Agency also won UNESCO 
literacy awards for its efforts in adult literacy. See Fasokun and Pwol, 2008 op. cit. 21  Nigeria has participated in international conferences such the Persepolis 
Declaration 1975, the Vienna Declaration 1993, the Hamburg Declaration 1997. 
See,  22 “Nigeria: Literacy Rate” UNESCO,2018, Accessed March 1, 2021. 
http://uis.unesco.org/en/country/ng 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                        A. O. Abayomi and S. A. Wada 
214 
 
policy has been based on a narrow concept that considers literacy to be 
limited to the ability to read, write and calculate. In today's post-Covid-
19 scientific and technological age, this is no longer enough for people 
to function effectively. Literacy involves not only adapting to current 
circumstances, but also possessing the problem-solving and critical-
thinking capabilities needed to make any necessary changes. 
 
The role of NYSC in Mass literacy in the Country 
The federal government of Nigerian has committed itself to achieving 
Education For All (EFA) objective 4 and MDGs. But strategy being 
implemented through National Council for Mass Literacy and Adult 
Education in Nigeria with the technical support of UNESCO and other 
partners has not given desired result as illiteracy rate continues to 
increase.23 While these past attempts are laudable, it has done little to 
decrease the level of illiteracy in Nigeria. Having said this, though, NYSC 
was not considered to be an important agent in the promotion of mass 
literacy campaigns in the first place; and was not drafted in as a partner 
as such.24 It  has since its establishment been a non-formal pathway or 
tool that ensures that priority groups are reached; and it has continued 
to impact literacy level in the country through the activities embedded 
in its Community Development Projects (group or personal) in which 
Education Development is germane. With these projects, the Corps 
members impact their host communities through literacy campaigns. 
                                                           23 “Revitalization of Adult & Youth Literacy”, National Commission for Mass 
Literacy, Adult & Non-Formal Education, accessed February 15, 
2021,https://www.nmec.gov.ng/rayl.php 24 except for the National Library, which teamed up with the National Youth 
Service Corps (NYSC) to start reading clubs across the country. See, Kanayo 
Umeh,“ 
FG develops operational plan for mass literacy programme”, The Guardian, April 
12, 2018    
 https://guardian.ng/features/fg-develops-operational-plan-for-mass-literacy-
programme/ 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Role of NYSC in Facilitating Mass Literacy in Nigeria 
215 
 
 
With the intention to ensure that the future youth understand and 
appreciate the diversity of the country25while at the same time 
providing them with the opportunity of gaining experience before 
going into the labour market, the National Youth Service Corps was 
promulgated by a decree of the Federal Military Government on the 
22nd May 1973.26 The NYSC became one of the longest efforts of the 
federal government to ensure youths are involved in the service of 
their country by utilizing to the fullest the abundant fresh and young 
high level manpower available in them for the progress of the country. 
This makes the National Youth Service Scheme the largest mobiliser of 
the vast Majority of educated Youth in the country with their 
compulsory one-year service to the nation.27 
The NYSC is therefore responsible for mobilizing graduands from the 
tertiary institutions who successfully completed their academic years 
for their respective course of study. After these graduates are 
mobilized, they are called-up for a three weeks camp in the respective 
state Orientation Camps where they are deployed to serve. The Camp is 
to indoctrinate and orient these youths on the environment and culture 
of the states they are posted to. At the end of the Orientation Camp, 
they are posted to places of primary assignment (PPA) within the states 
they are deployed. The Corps members engage in a compulsory 
Community Development Service (CDS) during their service year. The 
program is aimed at harnessing the skills, creativity and innovativeness 
of the youths into effective machinery for national development which 
they discharged to their host community while serving.28It is a 
                                                           25 Gregory Enegwea and Gabriel Umoden, NYSC: Twenty Years of National Service, 
National Youth Service Corps directorate Headquarters: Yaba (Lagos), 1993, xi. 26 Gregory Enegwea and Gabriel Umoden, NYSC: Twenty Years of National…, xi. 27 Gregory Enegwea and Gabriel Umoden, NYSC: Twenty Years of National…, xi. 28 Gregory Enegwea and Gabriel Umoden, NYSC: Twenty Years of National…, 56. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                        A. O. Abayomi and S. A. Wada 
216 
 
necessary prerequisite to passing out after the one-year period of 
service for all active Corps members.  
The Scheme has made a significant contribution to the nation's social, 
political, and economic transition since its establishment in 1973. The 
scheme has been at the forefront of the nation's effort to correct the 
disparity in our rural-urban growth through numerous Community 
Development projects carried out by Corps members in recent years. It 
is apt to say that, one of the four (4) cardinal programme of NYSC is the 
CDS. Corps members collaborate with local communities through the 
CDS to promote self-sufficiency by actively prospecting and 
implementing development projects and programs that have a 
significant effect on the host communities' socio-economic 
development. In principle, members of the service Corps are referred to 
as Corps members. Each Corps Member is required to be assigned to a 
specific CDS group as his or her Group CDS, while the personal CDS 
project/programme is optional.29Sixteen CDS groups were identified 
approved by the NYSC scheme.30 The CDS’s projects have largely 
transformed our societies in the fields of education, economic 
development, poverty eradication, social welfare, and, most 
importantly, national consciousness and socio-cultural regeneration 
that was tailored into.31 
Education Development CDS Group (Mass Literacy, Adult Education, 
Extra Murals ICT) has being in the forefront of promoting mass literacy, 
adult education, career guidance and counselling, with extra mural 
                                                           29 Abdullahi, Muhammad and A. I. Chikaji, “Issues in Community Development 
Service Scheme of Nigeria’s National Youth Service Corps and its Relevance to 
Community Development”, International Journal of Research in Science & 
Engineering 2 no.6,(December 2016), 218-224  30  NYSC Wwbpage, nysc.gov.ng/cds.html. 31  Gregory Enegwea and Gabriel Umoden, NYSC: Twenty Years of National…, 57. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Role of NYSC in Facilitating Mass Literacy in Nigeria 
217 
 
lessons for students etc.32 Generally referred to as ‘Education’, these 
groups are mandated with the aim and objectives to achieve EFA Goals. 
Mass Literacy Community Development Group is one of the CDS groups 
approved by the NYSC. The platform was set up primarily to reduce 
illiteracy through literacy programmes/activities and their mandate is 
to work towards achieving EFA (Education for All) Goals in Nigeria. As 
the name implies, Mass Literacy CDS group is to bring literacy to the 
door steps of the masses, especially those living in rural areas and 
urban slums of the society. With their activities which include 
campaign against Illiteracy, and organization of extra-mural classes for 
Adults and other in-school program, Aishat, Hope and James,33 opined 
that, their activities have brought over seventy (70) individuals out of 
illiteracy, thereby contributing to the making of a literate society.34 
Many others have also volunteered in mobilising resources to offer 
scholarship grants to indigent students as their community project 
during their service year.35 
These activities, however, have earned many Corps members a regular 
teaching job in their host communities. For instance, Adogbeji 
Oghenevwarhe opened that nothing can be more fulfilling in life than 
helping to build the career of other individuals, especially the 
downtrodden.36 She was an ex-Corps member who devoted her time 
                                                           32Kunle Ologunro, “16 NYSC CDS Groups And Their Functions”, Zikko, , May 7, 
2020, https://www.zikoko.com/life/nysc-diary/16-nysc-cds-groups-and-their-
functions/ 33 Aishat (22 years) and Hope (20 years) are serving Corps members in Abia and 
Zamfara states respectively, while James (30 years) is an ex-Corps member of Ekiti 
state. Their details were omitted as requested by the interviewers. 34 Interview, Michael Eniola, NYSC Corps member, 25 years, Zamfara, on February 
22, 2021 35Afolayan et’al, Selected Speeches and Strides of the 18th NYSC…, 81. 36 Lawrence Njoku, ‘Ex-Corps member dedicates life to teaching prisoners’, The 
Guardian, February 22, 2020. https://guardian.ng/saturday-magazine/ex-Corps-
member-dedicates-life-to-teaching-prisoners/, accessed January, 20, 2021 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                        A. O. Abayomi and S. A. Wada 
218 
 
since her service year to impact inmates at the Enugu Maximum 
Correctional Centre. She asserts that:  
I met with my boss and explained to him that this is 
something I like to do and that if he could give me some 
hours in a day, it will enable me go to prison to help 
teach them. My boss, being a lenient man, agreed and 
that was how I found myself there… My major focus at 
the moment is how to get the Federal Government to 
establish primary and secondary schools in the 
premises of the Prisons to serve inmates, who had no 
opportunity of “reading and writing before their 
present predicament.” 
Also, instances of where Corps members built a block of classrooms, 
renovate dilapidated ones, and enrol financially challenged students in 
school to complement government efforts are numerous to count here. 
They have provided educational opportunities for members of their 
host communities to learn basic and vocational skills that are essential 
for such a society's overall development. From the above, it is glaring 
that NYSC scheme would have done more if adequate partnership can 
be entered into between the National Commission for Mass Literacy 
and Adult Education, with adequate motivation for interested Corps 
members. Though selfless service of Corps members cannot be 
overemphasized, there is a need for government to step-in to fasten the 
process. Through NYSC CDS, especially in the rural areas, it has 
encouraged the spirit of collective communal services; which reduced 
the level of dependency on government for infrastructural 
development in those areas.37 
With the overwhelming numbers of Corps members that have served in 
rural and urban communities of this country, it could be right to 
adjudge that pupils have been touched, students have been inspired, 
                                                           37 Gregory Enegwea and Gabriel Umoden, NYSC: Twenty Years of National…, 61 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Role of NYSC in Facilitating Mass Literacy in Nigeria 
219 
 
school dropout has been given hope, likewise adult education has 
received an upsurge in participants. As a result, NYSC is providing a 
relief to these sectors which are short staffed, as both public and 
private schools have benefitted immensely from its establishment.38 
This is evident in table 1 bellow. 
Table 12.1: Showing the number of Corps Members posted to both 
Primary and Secondary Schools. 
Service Year No. of Corps 
Members 
Posted to 
primary School 
No. of Corps 
Members 
Posted to 
Secondary 
School 
Total 
2015 service 
year 
8378 57248 65626 
2016 service 
year 
10710 67095 77805 
2017 service 
year 
8940 54199 63139 
2018 service 
year 
10838 63617 74455 
2019 service 
year 
6813 38416 45229 
Total 46679 280575 326254 
 
Source: Adeola J Afolayan, Anthony M Nzoka, Emmanuel B Tapshang, 
Yunusa Tanimu, Tunde Ajayi and Shehu B Harris, Selected Speeches and 
Strides of the 18th NYSC Director-General Brig Gen. S Ibrahim, The 
Special Duties Department, NYSC Headquarters: Abuja, (May, 2020), 80. 
                                                           38  Gregory Enegwea and Gabriel Umoden, NYSC: Twenty Years of National 
Service…, 162 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                        A. O. Abayomi and S. A. Wada 
220 
 
From the above analysis, NYSC scheme has been able to post the total of 
326254 Corps members to schools across the country from 2015 
service year to 2019 service year in an effort to contribute to the 
development of the education sector. If appropriately utilized by the 
National Commission for Mass Literacy, Adult and Non-Formal 
Education in Nigeria as a prerequisite for attainment of mass literacy, 
by 2030, Nigeria would have met the EFA objectives. 
Finally, NYSC has made substantial progress in improving the reading 
skills of pupils, students, and individuals who have interacted with 
Corps members. Evidence has shown that parents may likely send their 
children to schools where Corps members are present, as well as to 
acquire new information about healthy living, civic rights, and 
livelihood activities.39 Official report from the Ministry of Education 
also agree that the Corps members attached to schools in rural areas 
have bolstered mass literacy campaigns and led to fewer illiteracy rate 
in Delta state.40 
 
Constraint in the effective Mass Literacy campaign under NYSC 
Insecurity – This is one of the major challenges that the scheme is 
going through especially with regards to the posting of graduates to 
different parts of the country. This issue of insecurity has been one of 
the challenges of the scheme right from inception although the 
intensity of this challenge has changed. In 1973, when public reactions 
were assessed, public opinion especially that of parents showed 
concerns to have their ward or children work in places far from home. 
The fears that law and order could break down anytime due to the 
fragile nature of the country including the fact that most of these 
graduates were going to places they neither have understanding of 
                                                           39 Interview with Mrs Dukwu Favour, 39 years, Teacher, Okpanam, Delta state. 
Interviewed on February 15, 2021. 40  Interview with Mr. Dennis Molokwu, 52 years Civil Servant, Kwale, Delta state. 
Interviewed on February 14, 2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Role of NYSC in Facilitating Mass Literacy in Nigeria 
221 
 
their conventions, code of behavior which they could violate 
unknowingly and which could result to punishments greater than the 
offence.41 This is mostly a situation that is encountered by Corps 
members who come from the south, west and eastern part of the 
country to northern part who are used to dressing in western lifestyle 
and vice versa. Currently, the rising cases of insurgency, terrorism, 
banditry, farmers/herders and kidnappings are part of the challenge to 
mass literacy campaign.  
 
Funding: For any project or programme to be effective, there is need 
for adequate funds to be available. The issue of funding is another 
challenge that is faced in the effective campaign and education by Corps 
member in contributing to Mass literacy in the country. Corp members 
embark on programmes to help sensitize the people in the 
communities they serve. Unfortunately, most of the programmes are 
not given proper attention because of the challenge of funding from the 
expected partner, in this case the National Commission for Mass 
literacy, adult and Non-formal education.42 Hence, the masses during 
these campaigns are not reached. This results to individual efforts by 
Corps members in contributing their little quota to enable mass 
education by informally funding the school activities of several people 
in the host communities. 
Also, the passion of Corps members to willingly engage in mass literacy 
education is hindered by the lack of attractive incentives. This is by far 
one of the major challenges of the teaching profession in the country. It 
is considered one of the most prestigious jobs, yet with the least 
prestigious pay. For instance, this had forced many Corps members 
                                                           41  Gregory Enegwea and Gabriel Umoden, NYSC: Twenty Years Of National Service, 
National Youth Service Corps directorate Headquarters: Yaba (Lagos), 1993, 17 42 The collaboration between the NYSC and National Commission for Mass 
Literacy, Adult and Non-Formal Education is not an active one, as it is still an 
emerging collaboration. assessed on February, 26th 2021. See the 
Nysc.gov.ng/cds.html. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                        A. O. Abayomi and S. A. Wada 
222 
 
who are professionally trained teachers – graduates of educational 
institutions often wish to be sent to corporate 
organizations/institutions other than schools. The need to ensure that 
incentives are put in place particular for those Corps members who will 
be willing to engage in Mass literacy in the rural areas will change the 
perception of the job. This will encourage them to inculcate the little 
knowledge they have with passion and dedication. This was re-iterated 
by the Director General of the NYSC. In his speech, he stated that the 
need for attractive incentives cannot be overemphasised in 
encouraging hard work and dedication of staff which also apply to the 
Corps members. He therefore renewed his call to State and Local 
Governments to prioritise the provision of standard facilities, including 
befitting Corps lodges in the rural schools and other service locations. 
He mentioned the need for hard work of the Corps member to be 
rewarded by awards for outstanding performances as well as extra-
bonuses for teachers.43 
 
Language Barrier: NYSC mobilises graduands and send them to other 
states other than their states of origin. This implies that Corps member 
serving outside their place of origin might have little or no knowledge 
of the language spoken in the community they are posted. Although, 
English is the lingua franca of the country, majority of Nigerians do not 
know how to read, write nor speak the proper English, especially those 
in the rural areas who relate with themselves on a day to day basis 
without the influence of an outsider, so communication is done on a 
regular basis in the local dialect. This makes it difficult to communicate 
with the people particularly when the Corps members are deployed 
from the eastern part of the country to the northern part of the country 
where they barely understand the language or speak it and vice versa 
                                                           43Afolayan  et’al, Selected Speeches and Strides of the 18th NYSC Director-General 
Brig Gen. S Ibrahim, The Special Duties Department, NYSC Headquarters: Abuja, 
(May, 2020),84 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Role of NYSC in Facilitating Mass Literacy in Nigeria 
223 
 
to effectively educate the people in these communities. This causes a 
dilemma on both sides and affects the zeal to actively participate in the 
mass education and the willingness of those to be taught, to learn. 
 
Way Forward 
It is important to use the youth to achieve the goals of national 
development and integration. For a country like Nigeria, the 
importance of this cannot be overstated, being that the youths make up 
the largest part of the population in the country.44 With the NYSC 
Scheme being the largest mobiliser of these youths to actively serve the 
motherland for a year, a scheme that is one of the longest and 
successful efforts by government to promote the unity and equal 
development in the country, it is only wise that other sectors utilize this 
avenue to achieve their objectives. While some of these sectors have 
indeed seen the opportunity presented in the scheme with large 
number of youths at its disposal for national service, the National 
Commission for Mass Literacy, Adult and Non-Formal Education is yet 
to effectively utilize this scheme in achieving its objectives. Hence, its 
objective of soliciting the support and cooperation of all stakeholders in 
the task of making all Nigeria literate, develop literacy programmes 
with special attention on disadvantaged group such as women, the 
marginalized rural dwellers and out-of-school children as well as 
collaborating with states, local government and non-government 
organisations cannot be achieved. The NYSC is also the only Scheme 
that sends youth to the remotest parts of the country, majority of 
whom engage in imparting knowledge in schools. These Corps 
members’ efforts in these remotest rural areas that mostly constitute 
the largest number of illiterates in the country have helped to sustain 
these schools they are sent to. This is because the Corps members are 
                                                           44 H.Plecher, Statista: Age Structure in Nigeria 2019, 
http://www.statista.com/statistics/382296/age-structure-in-nigeria/ 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                        A. O. Abayomi and S. A. Wada 
224 
 
willing and have the capability to teach wherever they find 
themselves.45 
 
Conclusion 
Based on the findings obtained from this paper, it has been observed 
that poverty and illiteracy are the two main problems facing Nigerian 
society. Therefore, we still cannot compete with the developed 
countries in the 21st century. It was also observed that NYSC had 
played a pivotal role in the campaign against illiteracy in Nigeria. 
Although the literacy needs and capacity building of community 
members are met by the Corps members, the fact remains that even 
when efforts are made to maintain them, influence is no longer 
perceived if they are not supported by the government. The Corps 
members of the NYSC are advised to focus more on awakening people 
to take initial steps in their own growth and to work with the 
government to increase the performance of the scheme during mass 
literacy campaigns. Finally, in order to make everyone functional and 
reduce the literacy gap in Nigeria, (i) the key agent for mass literacy in 
Nigeria is to bring NYSC on board; ii) choose significantly trained and 
qualified Corps members with increased incentives; iii) involve 
individuals in different development programs that would enable 
optimal potential to be attained and reduce waste. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           45 Gregory Enegwea and Gabriel Umoden, NYSC: Twenty Years of National…,163. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Role of NYSC in Facilitating Mass Literacy in Nigeria 
225 
 
Bibliography  
 
Adebola, Helen Ebunooluwa.  “The Public Policy Challenges of Mass 
Literacy, Adult and Non-Formal Education in the Global Age”, in 
perspectives on Globalisation, Development Policy, (Afro Euro 
Centre for Development Studies, 2008):1047-1048. 
Adejoke, Akinbola, “The role of Corps Members on Imo state mass 
literacy campaign”. Interview by the authors (Audio), 06:14 on 
January 29, 2021. 
Afolayan, Adeola J, Anthony M Nzoka, Emmanuel B Tapshay, Yunusa 
Tanimu, Tunde Ajayi and Shehu B Harris, Selected Speeches and 
Strides of the 18th NYSC Director-General Brig Gen. S Ibrahim, The 
Special Duties Department, NYSC Headquarters: Abuja (May 
2020):84. 
Aishat, Hope and James.  “impacts OF NYSC Mass Literacy CDS on 
Nigeria Mass Literacy campaign”. Interview by the authors via 
Mobile call on February 15, 2021. 
Enegwea, Gregory and Gabriel Umoden. NYSC: Twenty Years of 
National Service, National Youth Service Corps directorate 
(Headquarters: Yaba Lagos, 1993): xi. 
Eniola, Michael, “impacts OF NYSC Mass Literacy CDS on Nigeria Mass 
Literacy campaign”. Interview by the authors via WhatsApp 
messenger, on February 22, 2021 
Fafunwa, A.B.  New perspectives in Africa education (Lagos: Macmilian, 
1971). 
Fasokun, Thomas and Cecilia Pwol. “National and Regional Reflections 
on Operationalising the Benchmarks/ Nigeria: the Current 
situation within the Framework of the International Benchmarks”,  
DVV International, accessed from htts://www.dvv-
international.de/en/adult-education-and-development/editions. 
Favour, Dukwu. “impacts OF NYSC Mass Literacy CDS in Delta state on 
Nigeria Mass Literacy campaign”. Interview by the authors via 
WhatsApp messenger on February 15, 2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                        A. O. Abayomi and S. A. Wada 
226 
 
Imam, Hauwa. “Education Policy in Nigeria from the Colonial Era to the 
Post-Independence”, Italian Journal of Sociology of Education 1, 
(2012):186. 
Kashim, A.S. “The role of Corps Members on Katsina state mass literacy 
campaign”. Interview by the authors (Audio), 09:43 on February 
18, 2021. 
Lawrence Njoku. ‘Ex-Corps member dedicates life to teaching 
prisoners’, The Guardian (February 22, 2020), 
https://guardian.ng/saturday-magazine/ex-Corps-member-
dedicates-life-to-teaching-prisoners/, accessed January, 20, 2021 
Molokwu, Dennis. “impacts OF Corps Members on Delta state Mass 
Literacy campaign”. Interview by the authors via Mobile call on 
February 14, 2021. 
Muhammad, Abdullahi and A. I. Chikaji. “Issues in Community 
Development Service Scheme of Nigeria’s National Youth Service 
Corps and its Relevance to Community Development”, 
International Journal of Research in Science & Engineering 2, no.6, 
(December 2016): 218-224. 
National Commission for Mass Literacy, Adult & Non-Formal Education. 
“Revitalization of Adult & Youth Literacy”, accessed February 15, 
2021, https://www.nmec.gov.ng/rayl.php 
National Youth Service Commission. “Community Development Service 
and Special projects Departments” assessed on February, 26th 
2021, Nysc.gov.ng/cds.html. 
Ologunro, Kunle , “16 NYSC CDS Groups And Their Functions”, Zikko, 
(May 7, 2020), https://www.zikoko.com/life/nysc-diary/16-nysc-
cds-groups-and-their-functions/ 
Orji, Kingdom E. and Maekae Job. “The Role of Education in National 
Development: Nigerian Experience”, European Scientific Journal 9, 
No.28 (October 2013): 315 
Oxford, Bethany. “Literate school: Redefining Literacy in the 21st 
Century” (September 22, 2018), retrieved from 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Role of NYSC in Facilitating Mass Literacy in Nigeria 
227 
 
medium.com/literate-school/redefining-literacy-in-the-21st-
century. 
Oyebamiji, MA and Inenesit Essiet Umofia. “Influence of the Activities of 
the National Youth Service Corps Scheme on the Knowledge of 
Social Issues in Host Communities in Rivers and Akwa Ibom 
States”, International Journal Of Education and Evaluation, Vol.2, 
No.1. (International Institute of Academic Research and 
Development, 2016). 
Plecher, H. “Statista: Age Structure in Nigeria 2019”, 
http://www.statista.com/statistics/382296/age-structure-in-
nigeria/ 
Rose, Max and Esteban Ortiz Ospina. “Literacy”, Our world in Data, 
(2013). https://ourworldindata.org/literacy.  
The Guardian.  “FG develops operational plan for mass literacy 
programme” (April 12, 2018), 
UNESCO. “Nigeria: Literacy Rate” (2018), Accessed March 1, 2021. 
http://uis.unesco.org/en/country/ng 
________. “United Nations Literacy Decade: International Strategic 
Framework for Action” (2009): 4. Unesdoc.unesco.org/themes/ 
literacy-all  
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                                 A. C. Cornelius  
228 
 
 11 1133 33    
    NYSC and Educational Development in Nigeria: 
Contributions, Challenges and Prospects 
 
 
Aguiyi, Chukwuebuka Cornelius 
 
 
Introduction 
It is a truism that Nigeria has lost its pride of place among the comity of 
nations in spite of her rich human capital development and abundant 
natural resources. No doubt, the nation is plagued by communal 
clashes, religious chauvinism, ethnic jingoism, flagrant disregard for the 
rule of law, sectarian violence, militancy, terrorism, endemic 
corruption, electoral violence, hate speeches, and most prevailing 
ethnic clashes between some ethnic nationalities in the country.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Educational Development in Nigeria: 
229 
 
In other to arrest this ugly situation that has impinged on our 
development and that has robbed us from realizing the country’s 
dream of being among the twenty most developed economies of the 
world, there is need to try quality education option as being advocated 
in the philosophy and ideology of National Youth Service Corps (NYSC). 
Education is vital for socio-economic and political development. It is an 
instrument par excellence for national development. It is a potent tool 
in graduating families out of poverty and promoting social security. 
Education is the frontier for social justice and the wheels of social 
mobility and redistribution of societal wealth (National Policy on 
Education)1. Education as being propelled by NYSC scheme is defined 
as a process by which individuals are assisted formally through proper 
direction and guidance to develop their capacities for their own benefit 
and that of the society2. It is geared towards developing the individuals 
for them to live effectively and efficiently in the society and to 
contribute to its advancement and upliftment. Hence, through 
education as championed by NYSC, the behaviour patterns of the 
citizens could be changed in the desired direction. In other words, with 
sound education with national outlook and input by different 
instructors from all parts of the country, people will start to understand 
and appreciate one another better and try to restore the dignity of man. 
Hence, we have to recognize the role quality education plays in 
equipping individuals with requisite knowledge and skills for survival 
and peaceful co-existence, which enhances national development. 
 
Quality Education  
Education is more than reading, writing and arithmetic. It is one of the 
most important investments a country can make in its people and its 
future and is critical to reducing poverty, inequality, hatred, insecurity 
                                                           1Federal Republic of Nigeria.(2004). National Policy on Education (Revised). Lagos. 
Nigeria. Federal Government Press. 2Okeke, C.C. (2013). Philosophy of Education. Owerri: Design Prints Publishers. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                                 A. C. Cornelius  
230 
 
and other vices. The development of any society depends largely on the 
creative capacity of the citizens to be capable of effectively exploring 
and exploiting the country’s natural resources and transforming them 
into finished products and services so as to enhance the standard of 
living of the country’s citizens3. This type of education should be 
functional and be able to satisfy degree of people’s need and solve 
problems of the society. Elechi called this type of education, utilitarian 
education. Utilitarian education is education that is involving or 
containing a function or functions; practical rather than decorative, 
utilitarian, capable of functioning or working4. So, for Nigerian 
education to be utilitarian, it must be practical and useful. Functional 
education will ensure and/or produce food for people, create jobs, 
provide services, lead to democracy and ensure national security5. 
Functional education is the total process of bringing up an individual to 
develop their potentials (cognitive, affective and psychomotor) to the 
fullest and consequently to be able to contribute maximally to the 
development of the society6. Fafunwa also defined functional education 
as the aggregate of all the processes by which a child or young adult 
develops the abilities, attitudes and other forms of behaviour which are 
of positive value to the society in which he or she lives. He went further 
to state that when evaluating any educational system, one must 
determine the extent to which it is meeting the needs of a particular 
society at any given time7.  
                                                           3Nwangwu, I.O. (2017) Basic issues in school management, Enugu: computer edge 
publishers. 4Elechi, C. N. (2014), Managing Education for National Security: A Case for 
Utilitarian Education. Enugu, Creative Minds and Productivity. 5Ali, A.A. (2010) My reflections on Nigerian education (1990-1998) Convocation 
lecture at Federal College of Education Technical Asaba 6Idowu, A. (2019). Functional education and nation building: The challenge of the 
next millennium. Lead paper presented at the 4th national conference of 
federal of education, Kontagora. 7Fafunwa, A. Babs (1974). History of Education, London: George Allen and Unwin. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Educational Development in Nigeria: 
231 
 
Education is said to be quality when its purpose goes beyond the 
provision of education as an end but as a means, the end of which are 
targeted at the felt needs of the country. It is that education which is 
not merely theoretical, but rather is skill oriented, geared towards the 
cultivation of intellectual skills, vocational/technological skills, social 
skills and the like8. This kind of education according to him once 
acquired by the individual remains for a lifetime and is continually 
useful. Williams and Anekwe, in a more concise definition, aptly 
captured quality education as that, which should be capable of 
producing Nigerians who can manufacture raw materials, machines 
and tools needed for our industries, produce enough food for local and 
international markets, invent new designs, discover drugs capable of 
curing diseases hitherto incurable and transform the nation from 
consuming one to a manufacturing one9. It is this type of education that 
equips the learner with the potentials and capabilities for self-reliance. 
These achievements from a good and quality education go a long way 
to reducing illiteracy and poverty which fuels political, communal 
clashes, religious chauvinism, ethnic jingoism, flagrant disregard for the 
rule of law, sectarian violence, militancy, terrorism, endemic 
corruption, electoral violence, hate speeches that impinges our national 
unity and even development.  
 
NYSC and Education 
Within the past years’ development specialists have been focusing 
attention on the contribution which education can make to nation 
building. Harbison et al. (1964), Adams (1971), Lowe, Grant, & 
Williams, (1973), Beckett & O'Connell (1977) have tried to identify 
                                                           8Mkpa, M. A. (2012) Promoting functional education in the New millennium: in 
Anwor, O.O. &Obodo, G. (ed). Promoting functional education in the third 
millennium. Enugu: Faculty of Education, ESUT. 9William, C. &Anekwe, J.U. (2010).Nigerian university education and functionality 
in the 21st Century.Issues and challenges in Nigeria education in the 21st 
Century. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                                 A. C. Cornelius  
232 
 
relationships between education and political stability especially in the 
so-called developing countries10111213.  In a developing country like 
Nigeria, Federal, State, Local government and members of the public – 
stakeholders have been given education high priority. The main reason 
is that education is one instrument of change with which a country can 
achieve greatness socially, politically, economically, scientifically and 
technologically. In other words, every nation strives hard to get 
maximum output from the minimum input. Essentially, agitation for 
deployment of Corps members to retain its traditional hue-with the 
majority of Corps members going to the classrooms for quality and 
maximum education output started two decades ago, due to increasing 
rate of poor academic performance of students and to achieve national 
policy on education.  
However, in this millennium and in getting the best from the leaner, 
input in the field of education has witnessed many innovations due to 
initiation and execution of many educational programs embarked upon 
by the Corp members throughout the Federation. The policy-makers 
recently reaffirmed their faith in the role which education can play in 
nation building when they declared in the new National Policy on 
Education(2004) that "The Federal Government of Nigeria has adopted 
education as an instrument par excellence for effecting national 
development." The Policy goes further to identify national aims and 
objectives of education which include, inter alia, 
I. the inculcation of national consciousness and national unity; 
                                                           10Harbison, F. &Myers, C. A. (1964) Education, Manpower and Economic Growth 
(New York, McGraw Hill). 11Adams, Don (1971) Education in National Development (London, Routledge & 
Kegan Paul). 12Lowe, J., Grant, N. &Williams, T. D. (1973) Education and Nation Building in the 
Third World(Ibadan, Onibonoje Press). 13Beckett, P. & O'Connell, J. (1977) Education and Power in Nigeria (London, 
Hodder &Stoughton). 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Educational Development in Nigeria: 
233 
 
II. the inculcation of the right type of values and attitudes for the 
survival of the individual and the Nigerian Society; 
III. the training of the mind in the understanding of the world 
around; and 
IV. the acquisition of appropriate skills, abilities and competences 
both mental and physical as equipment for the individual to live 
in and contribute to the development of his society14. 
For those who seek insights into the process of national development, 
the inference which may be drawn from the above priority orderings of 
the aims and objectives of Nigerian education is that education is 
simply a tool for nation building. It is within this context that we shall 
examine the functions or the role of the National Youth Service Corps 
(NYSC) in the fostering of national unity and socio-economic 
development in Nigeria through quality education. The NYSC 
programme has for many years facilitated regular and effective 
distribution of skilled manpower, steady breaking of social and cultural 
barriers as well as the building of friendly bridges across ethno-
linguistic boundaries. It promoted values of national unity and 
development, rekindled interest in neglected but vital areas of national 
development like education and promoted youths’ interest in teaching 
and learning. The regular invitation of corp members to participate in 
the conduct of such sensitive national assignments as census, elections, 
immunization programme constantly pricks the conscience of the 
nation to the right course of development.  
The NYSC programme has helped in the educational development of 
the country, especially from junior secondary to tertiary levels15. Those 
who share the sentiment of sustaining the scheme like the Arewa 
                                                           14Federal Republic of Nigeria.(2004). National Policy on Education (Revised). Lagos. 
Nigeria. Federal Government Press. 15Aba, A. A. 2010. Nigerian Politics, 1999-2009: Images from Chinua Achebe’s 
Mirror, in Joseph Mangut and Terhemba Wuam (Eds.) The Press and 
Literature in the Fourth Republic, Markurdi: Aboki Publishers, pp. 133-147 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                                 A. C. Cornelius  
234 
 
Consultative Forum (ACF) state that no other programme in the 
country best meets objectives of the national education policy than 
NYSC. In an editorial, The Tide (2005:4) held that the reasons proffered 
in 1973 by the Yakubu Gowon administration for the establishment of 
the NYSC scheme are still very relevant in this country’s search for an 
enduring national unity. There is, therefore, no dispute on the 
desirability of the scheme and its benefits in our desire to maintain a 
strong, united and peaceful country despite recent assaults on its 
integrity. Amongst the Corps members themselves, the quantity and 
quality of skills and professional training NYSC programme has 
facilitated will remain indelible in the history of the Nigerian nation16. 
The traditional community development programme which was 
introduced in the 1976/1977 service year has helped a lot in the 
promotion of learning, rural education, tourism, healthcare and 
agricultural development. At the end of the 2012 Batch “B” orientation 
course, 45,000 Corps members had been trained in various skill areas. 
A further breakdown shows that 5,404 were trained in agro-allied 
skills, 5,509 in food processing and preservation, 8,035 in culture and 
tourism-related skills and 5,062 in cosmetology. Information and 
communication technology had 8,119, power and energy 2,885 and 
environment 2,672. Another set of 2,837 members acquired skills in 
beautification, 2,057 in construction and 2,425 in education (Utomwen, 
2012). All these portray the relevance of the NYSC programme in 
promoting quality education for national integration and socio-
economic development. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           16Utomwen, D. 2012. Tackling NYSC’s Security Challenge 
,http://www.pmnewsnigeria.com/2012/12/10/tackling-nyscs-security-
challenge/.Retrieved on 1st March, 2021 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Educational Development in Nigeria: 
235 
 
Conclusion and Recommendations 
The culture of graduate youths serving their countries has been 
practiced in different forms in USA, India, Korea, and Ghana. Since 
1973, graduates of Nigerian universities and later polytechnics were 
required to undergo a year of national service in any part of the 
country. In 1976, the NYSC programme was extended to HND holders 
and NCE holders, who were inculcated because of the dire need for 
teachers that would facilitate the Universal Primary Education (UPE) 
policy. For very good reasons, the Federal Military Government limited 
the Scheme initially to graduates of Nigerian Universities not above the 
age of 30 years who had successfully completed their first degree. In 
1977, there was the abolition of the age limit for participation in the 
scheme, which was later re-introduced and currently pegged at those 
not above thirty (30) years of age, just as the NCE holders has been 
disbanded from serving the country. It is worthy of note that these 
group of people that passed out may not be blamed for refusing to 
accept the theory of settling in the host state because Nigerian history 
is filled with cases of people that have been retrenched by a state 
governments, in order to employ their own people, using such 
professional names like right-sizing and down-sizing. 
Notwithstanding the security problems that have befallen the Nigerian 
state, the country still manages to remain a place of first choice for 
investment in Africa; hence the NYSC programme can still be factored 
in promoting sustainable peace and security as well as national 
development. There is increasing need for progressive re-organization 
of the NYSC in this era of multiple security crisis. This is because 
without the NYSC discharge certificate, the time spent in the university 
and polytechnic would have been wasted so to say, as nobody would 
offer a Nigerian graduate a public job without principally requesting 
the NYSC certificate. 
The then leadership of Brigadier General Okorie-Affia once declared the 
aim of establishing a Distress Call Centre (DCC) for Corps members to 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                                 A. C. Cornelius  
236 
 
use during time of distress and security threat. The country’s network 
providers should be approached through a combined effort of the 
NYSC, National Communication Commission and the Federal Ministries 
of Information, Communication as well as Defence to see that access to 
network is not disrupted. 
There is need for the extension of the camping period to about three 
months, during which the Corps members would be trained in 
vocational skills and other entrepreneurial acts that would make them 
self-reliant and initiators of small and medium scale enterprises after 
the service year. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Educational Development in Nigeria: 
237 
 
References 
 
Aba, A. A. 2010. Nigerian Politics, 1999-2009: Images from Chinua 
Achebe’s Mirror, in Joseph Mangut and Terhemba Wuam 
(Eds.) The Press and Literature in the Fourth Republic, 
Markurdi: Aboki Publishers, pp. 133-147 
Adams, Don (1971) Education in National Development (London, 
Routledge & Kegan Paul). 
Aguiyi, C. C. (2020). Entrepreneuership Education for sustainable 
Poverty Reduction in Nigeria. Institute of Education Journal 
Vol 32(1), 267-276. 
Akerele, W. O. (2013). Quality Assurance in Nigeria’s University System: 
The Imperatives for the 21st Century. Towards Quality in 
African Higher Education 125 
Aladelokun, D. 2014. Bishop Seeks Scrapping of NYSC Scheme. The 
Nation. Friday. April 22.P.4. 
Ali, A.A. (2010) My reflections on Nigerian education (1990-1998) 
Convocation lecture at Federal College of Education Technical 
Asaba 
Amuta, C. 2014. NYSC: Then, Now and 
Henceforth.http://www.eftngr.com/opal/analysis/46-
comment/1363-nysc-then-now-andhenceforth.Retrieved on 
1st March, 2021 
Beckett, P. &O'Connell, J. (1977) Education and Power in Nigeria 
(London, Hodder &Stoughton). 
Elechi, C. N. (2014), Managing Education for National Security: A Case 
for Utilitarian Education. Enugu, Creative Minds and 
Productivity. 
Fafunwa, A. Babs (1974). History of Education, London: George Allen 
and Unwin. 
Federal Republic of Nigeria. (2004). National Policy on Education 
(Revised). Lagos. Nigeria. Federal Government Press. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                                 A. C. Cornelius  
238 
 
Femi, O. A (2017). Problem of Higher Education in Nigeria. 
International Journal of Education, Volume 1, Issue 1. P-56-71 
Harbison, F. &Myers, C. A. (1964) Education, Manpower and Economic 
Growth (New York, McGraw Hill). 
Idowu, A. (2019). Functional education and nation building: The 
challenge of the next millennium. Lead paper presented at the 
4th national conference of federal of education, Kontagora. 
Lowe, J., Grant, N. &Williams, T. D. (1973) Education and Nation 
Building in the Third World(Ibadan, Onibonoje Press). 
Mkpa, M. A. (2012) Promoting functional education in the New 
millennium: in Anwor, O.O. & Obodo, G. (ed). Promoting 
functional education in the third millennium. Enugu: Faculty of 
Education, ESUT. 
National Youth Service Corps, 1996, NYSC Handbook, Abuja 
Nwangwu, I.O. (2017) Basic issues in school management, Enugu: 
computer edge publishers. 
Obasa, P. K. (2013). Consolidation and After, in M. M. Owosina, S. O. Ojo, 
J. A. Ibitoye, J.Yusuf, M. B. Abodunde, Adamolekun and M. F. 
Kolajo (Eds.) A Compendium of theNational Youth Service Corps 
Scheme: Ten Years of Service to the Nation, Lagos: Supercolour 
Productions, pp. 60-122 
Ohagenyi, M. 2014. Boko Haram and Threat to NYSC 
Programme,https://www.google.com.ng/?gfe_rd=cr&ei=ighlU-
3HIMTR8gePIHABg#q=pdf+security+threats+to+NYSC 
Retrieved on 1st May, 2014 
Okeke, C.C. (2013). Philosophy of Education. Owerri: Design Prints 
Publishers. 
Onyishi, A. O. 2011. Youth and National Development in Nigeria: An 
Analysis of National Youth Service Scheme: 1999-2009, 
International Journal of Modern Political Economy, Vol. 2,No. 1, 
pp. 87-102 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Educational Development in Nigeria: 
239 
 
Utomwen, D. 2012. Tackling NYSC’s Security 
Challenge,http://www.pmnewsnigeria.com/2012/12/10/tack
ling-nyscs-security-challenge/.Retrieved on 1st March, 2021 
William, C. & Anekwe, J.U. (2010). Nigerian university education and 
functionality in the 21st Century. Issues and challenges in 
Nigeria education in the 21st Century. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                               E. Z. Ambrose 
240 
 
 11 1144 44    
    NYSC and the Dynamics of Rural Education System in 
Nigeria 
 
 
Elisha Zigwai Ambrose 
 
 
Introduction 
Scholarly works has established that Education in the rural Nigeria 
mostly is on the disadvantage side because it is an activity carried out 
in the city or the possibly privileged area. All the stakeholders in the 
rural areas are facing one problem or the other, and these include the 
structure, the job satisfaction, the background, and lack of maximum 
co-operation from student and their parents. These and other factors 
bring about some negative influence on the smooth running of the 
system of education in rural areas. The Nigerian education system is 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the Dynamics of Rural Education System in Nigeria 
241 
 
based on the vestiges of Colonial education system.1By and large, it has 
been posited that, “over the years, it has been criticized for being too 
theoretical to be able to make meaningful impact on the life of 
Nigerians. 
Hence, the position of youth policies and programmes appeared not to 
be nationalistic before independence. Not until the Gowon regime, in 
1973, which introduced the National Youth Service Corps 
Scheme2 solely with a view to foster the spirit of oneness and selfless 
service in the diverse communities across Nigeria - this Scheme is the 
fulcrum around which this study revolves. In Nigeria, for instance it has 
most often been argued that, there is no aspect of the economic, social 
and cultural life the NYSC Scheme has not contributed meaningfully to.3 
Specifically, this Scheme offers many graduates an entry point into the 
labour market. Many dedicated Corps members have been offered 
employment in their places of primary assignment.4 
These are graduates who would ordinarily have roamed the streets 
unemployed and ignorant of the opportunities that exist in other parts 
of the country.5 
                                                           1Imam, H., “Educational Policy in Nigeria from the Colonial Era to the Post-
Independence Period”, Italian Journal of Sociology of Education, Vol. 1, (2012), 
189. 
2Agumagu, A. C., Adesope, O. M., & Mathews-Njoku, E. C., “Attitude of Youth 
Corpsers towards the Community Development Service of NYSC Nigeria”, Journal 
of Agricultural and Social Research (JASR), Vol. 6, No.1, (2006), 78-82.  
3Bamidele, L., “NYSC: An enduring legacy. A public lecture organized in Abuja on 
June 4, 1998. Retrieved February 27, 2021, from 
http//www.onlinenigeria.com/links/NYSC  
4Ademowo, Y.”NYSC: Exploring the Diversity in the Unity of Nigeria”, 2007. 
Retrieved on February 26,  2021, from www.nigerian-
newspaper.com/national_youth_service_Corps.htm  
5World  Bank, NYSC: An  Enduring Legacy, 2003.Retrieved  February 20 2021, 
from www.thisdayonline.com/archive/2021/20/21  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                               E. Z. Ambrose 
242 
 
In addition, there are communities that have benefited from the 
Scheme through services rendered by Corps members, some of which 
may not have been provided by either government or private 
intervention. The same is the case in urban Centre’s where financial 
institutions, industries and the petroleum sector also tap from their 
expertise.6The national youth service Corps Scheme is indeed a channel 
for national unity and socio-economic development especially with the 
provision and availability of adequate facilities that will aid 
functionality and engender competitiveness among prospective Corps 
members and not just persuasive and mandatory concept as it is today.  
It is paramount to re-affirm the significance of the community 
development service of the Scheme in harnessing the nation’s 
economy/abundant resources especially in rural areas of the 
country.7 However, preliminary interviews with some former and 
current Corps members revealed that among all the programmes of the 
NYSC Scheme, the community development service was/and is the 
most exciting, interesting and challenging aspect of the Scheme. This 
invariably informs that, there is need for analytical examination of the 
contributions of the NYSC education group in rural communities across 
Nigeria and the myriads of challenges confronting the group in general 
which the chapter will critically examine. 
 
Conceptual Framework  
Rural and Urban Areas  
For the purpose of clarity, the terms - ‘urban’ and ‘rural’ need to be 
defined operationally. Generally, attempts to define these two terms 
                                                           6Udende, P., &Salau, A. A. “National Youth Service Corps Scheme and the Quest 
for National Unity and Development: A Public Relations Perspective” (Ilorin: 
Department of Mass Communication, University of Ilorin, 2013). 
7Ademowo, Y., “NYSC: Exploring the Diversity in the Unity of Nigeria” ,2007,  
Retrieved February 25, 2021, from www.nigerian-
newspaper.com/national_youth_service_Corps.htm 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the Dynamics of Rural Education System in Nigeria 
243 
 
have thus followed three perspectives. The first perspective is the 
subjective or perceptual. In this case, urban or rural area may be 
defined in terms of their visual components. This is the case when the 
definition of urban or rural area is based on the facilities or services 
(e.g. electricity, market, water, tarred roads etc) available in a place. 
The second perspective is the objective or quantitative. This 
perspective uses quantitatively determined criteria in defining urban 
or rural areas e.g. population size of a place. The third perspective is 
definition by exclusion. In this perspective, when one of the terms is 
defined, the other term is defined by exclusion from the defined term. 
For instance, having defined urban area, a rural area is now defined as 
any place or area that is not urban.8  
Different countries or regions of the World tend to define the terms 
‘urban area’ and ‘rural area’ in different ways. For instance, in UK urban 
areas are places with 26% or more of its population living in a market 
town or settlement with 2,500 or more persons. That means areas with 
less than 26% of its population living in a market town or a settlement 
with less than 2,500 persons are considered rural areas.9  
In Nigeria, an urban area is defined as an area with a population size of 
at least 20,000 persons.10 By the principle of exclusion therefore, a 
rural area is a place with a population size of less than 20,000 persons. 
In addition, they are remote areas outside the seat of government 
                                                           8Boniface G.  Nworguand Loretta N. Nworgu,, “Urban-Rural Disparities in 
Achievement at the Basic Education Level: The Plight of the Rural Child in a 
Developing Country”, Developing Country Studies, Vol. 3, No.14, (2013)   ISSN 
2224-607X (Paper) ISSN 2225-0565 (Online), www.iiste.org  
9 United Nations, Reducing disparities: Balanced development of urban and rural 
areas and regions within countries of Asia and the Pacific, Economic and Social 
Commission for Asia and the Pacific, (New York: 2001)  
10Aluko, O.E. “The Impact of urbanization on housing development: The Lagos 
experience, Nigeria”, Ethiopian Journal of Environmental Studies and 
Management, Vol. 3, No.3, (2005). 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                               E. Z. Ambrose 
244 
 
(federal, state or local government) with very few or no infrastructural 
facilities where the major economic activity is largely agricultural 
production.11In spite of the fact that there is a growing tendency 
towards urbanization, the majority of the Nigerian population still 
resides in the rural areas.12  Which suffer from copious economic, social, 
political and geographical deprivations.13The impact of rural 
deprivations or neglect is pronounced and is manifest in severe rural 
poverty, poor health services, poor educational services, lack of safe 
drinking water, poor road networks and lack of communication 
facilities.   
 
Education in Rural Nigeria  
There are various forms of formal educational facilities in rural Nigeria.  
These include (a) Informal out-of-school education offered to rural 
families by experts in agriculture, home economics, health, small-scale 
industries, etc.  This type of education is often known as extension 
education. (b) Semi-formal literacy education organized for adults who 
had no opportunity to acquire formal education at earlier age.  This is 
known as adult education. (c) Formal education offered at the primary 
and secondary levels to rural children and adolescents.  At the primary 
level, two main types of education can be identified in Nigeria.  These 
are the western type of education and the Quranic type of education 
with the latter being more prevalent in the Moslem areas of the 
country.  Since Nigeria had grown up under the influence of the 
western world, there has been the tendency for people to underrate 
Quranic education generally.  Thus for instance, 4 years of western 
                                                           11National Open University, Introduction to Rural Sociology. Course Guide, (Lagos: 
National Open University, 2008). 
12UNESCO (2009). UN Statistics: Progress on MDGs 
13Onokerhoronye. A.E. “Planning for rural development in Nigeria: A spatial 
approach”, Community Development Journal, Vol.13, No.1, (1978).  
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the Dynamics of Rural Education System in Nigeria 
245 
 
education is equated with 15 years of Quranic education.  Until 
recently, most parts of rural northern Nigeria had only Quranic schools 
whereas western-type schools have always predominated in the 
south.14 
Extension Education is an informal non-school based education.  It is 
often directed to rural people with the aim of upgrading their 
competence or skills in specific areas such as agriculture, health or 
home management. In Nigeria, the Ministry of Agriculture hires and 
trains agricultural extension agents to carry out agricultural extension 
work with farmers.  Ideally, it is expected that farmer-extension agent’s 
ratio in the country should be 750 farm families or less to 1 full-time 
extension agent.  However, this ratio remained at an average of 2500:1 
as at 2000.  This compares unfavorably with 200:1 in India or 250:1 in 
Kenya.  As a result of this insufficiency of extension agents, extension 
education in rural Nigeria is not a continuously sustained programme 
which could have generally upgraded farmers’ knowledge, skills and 
productivity.15 Other forms of extension education in the areas of 
health care, home management and the establishment and 
management of small-scale industries are faced with the same 
problems of insufficiency of specificity staff, sporadic contacts and 
emphasis on rendering specific service rather than on general 
education.         
Furthermore, it has been pointed out that Primary school education in 
Nigeria can be obtained in western-type schools or in Quranic 
                                                           14Aghenta, J. A.A, “Turning Point in Education and Development in Nigeria”, 
Inaugural Lecture Series 58 of University of Benin, Benin Delivered on January   24, 
(2001). 
15Obanya P. “Major Challenges to the Development of Secondary Education in 
Nigeria”, Paper Presented At The First Regional Conference On Secondary 
Education In Africa (SEIA), Kampala, Uganda, June, 9-13, (2003). 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                               E. Z. Ambrose 
246 
 
schools.16  Nearly all villages in the present day Nigeria have a western-
type primary school as a result of the Federal Government’s Universal 
Free Primary Education Scheme instituted in 1976 and the UBE in year 
2000. This consists of a graded system of education which starts with 
the teaching of basic literacy at the lower primary levels (1-2) to the 
teaching of other specialized subjects like history, geography, civics, 
integrated science etc.  Nigeria prepares the pupils for entry into post-
primary institutions.  Those who cannot enter post primary schools 
drop out and either learn some trade, migrate to urban areas in search 
of jobs, or remain on the farms.  The inability to go on to the secondary 
schools in most states is due to fee paying and is often located outside 
the village.  Although there is no reliable statistics to show the drop-out 
rate from rural primary schools, it is estimated that, in the southern 
part of the country, this may be 40 per cent while in the northern part 
of the country, it might be up to 60 per cent.  In the north however, 
drop out is not mainly a direct result of inability of parents to pay 
school fees since generous scholarships are often available for those 
who want to go beyond the primary school level, but a reflection of the 
lingering resistance of some rural parents against westernization.  Also 
rural Fulani children particularly assist their parents to herd cattle 
right from the age of 7.  This fact coupled with the unsettled nature of 
their lifestyle account for the unwillingness of parents to encourage 
their children to remain in school to the extent that in 1977, the 
Governors of some states in the northern part of Nigeria had to issue 
threats on parents who withdraw their children from school.  Nomadic 
education system was introduced in Nigeria in the late 80’s to afford 
                                                           16Abidogun, B.A. “Education sector reforms and childhood education for rural 
development in Nigeria,” An unpublished monograph, reviewed on the 
28/02/2012   from www.transformeduOrg/linkclick.aspx. 2012. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the Dynamics of Rural Education System in Nigeria 
247 
 
Cow Fulani children in the north and riverine area dwelling children in 
the south the opportunity and facilities to have some basic literacy.17  
Still, it has been asserted that, generally, pupils attend primary schools 
from home hence the distance of school from home may also affect 
attendance. Moreso, he stressed that according to a 1981 Rural 
Infrastructures Report in Nigeria.18 there are great variations from state 
to state and rural to urban area within states with respect to the 
number of primary schools, proportion of trained teachers, size of class 
per trained teacher and average walking distance to school.  
Quranic schools are found mainly in the northern part of Nigeria and 
some Muslim areas of the south.  Generally, the school holds either in 
Mosques, private homes of the teachers or in open spaces under tree 
sheds.  It might have 10 to 40 pupils and is strictly privately owned and 
run by the teacher (Umma). The instruction itself consists mainly in 
memorizing verses of the Quran, learning Arabic alphabets, reading 
and writing Arabic.  Usually, the pupils can memorize verses of the 
Quran and can write Arabic, they hardly understand the meaning of 
what they are reciting at the primary stage of the curriculum.  Also, 
when the child is old enough to go and learn a trade, the hours of 
schooling are reduced and afternoon sessions cancelled.  The teacher 
charges small fees at regular intervals and also receives gifts such as 
grains, meat, and food, pieces of cloth or prayer mat and free labour 
from his pupils.  Although steps have been taken to upgrade Islamic 
                                                           17Ijaduola, K.O. Education in Nigeria: An Historical Perspective, (Ogun: Ijebu-Ode, 
Lucky Odoni (Nig.) Enterprises. 1998). 
18Okoh, E. “High Level Education, Manpower Development and Training.  A key to 
sustainable Economic growth and Development,” (Inaugural Lecture Series 63, 
University of Benin: 2002). 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                               E. Z. Ambrose 
248 
 
education in the country generally, the Quranic schools in rural areas 
are not controlled by the Ministry of Education.19  
For instance, in the Southern part of the country, efforts have been 
made to retrain some of the Islamic teachers so that they can 
incorporate subjects like English and Arithmetic in their curriculum.  
However, since the country uses western standards, Quranic school 
education is hardly recognized as useful beyond the Moslem 
community. Secondary School is the intermediate step on the 
educational pyramid in Nigeria.  Although they offer a variety of 
subjects, they are not structured to train pupils in specific skills but to 
prepare them for entry into higher institutions of learning.  Most 
secondary schools in southern Nigeria were originally founded and run 
by Christin missions, other voluntary agencies and private proprietors 
hence they were often located close to rural areas.  On the contrary, 
most secondary schools in the northern parts of the country were 
government owned and were located in urban centres.20  
This fact accounts for the staggering variation in average walking 
distance between home and school in northern and southern state of 
the country. However, in recent times, many state governments have 
phased out boarding facilities in secondary schools to reduce cost 
thereby making it mandatory for pupils to attend school from home.  In 
Oyo and most other southern states, quite a number of new secondary 
schools have been established in order to reduce the walking distance 
entailed as a result of this policy. Nevertheless, secondary schools are 
unevenly distributed between rural institutions; most rural areas may 
have none.  The rural infrastructure report showed that as of 1980, 
Kano State had 13 of its 25 post-primary schools in Kano Metropolitan 
                                                           19Adamu, A. U. “Educational Reforms in Nigeria”, (Department of Education, 
Bayero University, Kano, 2003), Accessed on 23 February, 2021. 
20 Adamu, A. U. “Educational Reforms in Nigeria… 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the Dynamics of Rural Education System in Nigeria 
249 
 
LGA while 7 Local Government Areas of the state had no secondary 
school at all.21  
On the whole while the UBE Schemes are aimed at eliminating illiteracy 
in the country eventually, rural Nigeria is still largely populated by 
people with very low levels of education. However, studies involving 
farmers from different parts of the country consistently show that an 
average of about 60 per cent is non-literate.  This proportion is even 
higher for women.  In addition, it has been posited that literate children 
do not tend to affect the general level of education in rural areas as 
these invariably migrate to towns thereby leaving the proportion of 
non-literate persons almost unchanged over the years.  The 1991 
population census figures confirm this observation.22  
In a similar vein, it has been opined that, the structure of primary and 
secondary education in Nigeria has consistently betrayed the unnamed 
objective of selecting the best from the rural areas to join the elite class 
in urban area after these must have gone through the university which 
is so far the apex of the Nigerian educational pyramid.  This urban elite 
class is largely made up of white collar job holders.  The subject taught 
are largely not founded on the indigenous culture neither does the 
curriculum take cognizance of the varied talents of the students.  It is 
still largely a system of education that seeks to instil and perpetuate 
deference toward all that is European, American or generally foreign to 
Nigeria. There is the tendency to underrate technical education and to 
overemphasize the ‘grammar’ school.  In this way, education offered up 
                                                           21Adamu, A. U. “Educational Reforms in… 
22Adewole A. “Universal Basic Education: Aspects of meaning and purpose” 
Proceeding of the 15th Annual Congress of the Nigerian Academy of Education, 
(University of Benin 6th-9th November, 2003), 64. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                               E. Z. Ambrose 
250 
 
to the secondary level could not be said to have effectively equipped 
Nigerians to participate in the process of change.23  
According to National Population Commission (2012) it is generally 
believed that Nigeria has a total population of 170 million people, out of 
this number 67% live in the rural areas while the remaining 34% live in 
the urban centres.24  
 
Government Policies and Educational Development in Rural 
Nigeria Communities 
The current state of rural schools in most Nigerian communities is not 
different from other parts of the country.  Schools in the rural areas 
lack teachers, even when teaches are posted to the rural areas they fail 
to report and no penalty is administered to them.  The teachers that 
reports for duties are either NYSC members or students on industrial 
training and a minute number of permanent staff (some unqualified).  
The conditions of the rural schools in most Nigerian communities are 
nothing to write home about as some don’t even have seats, while some 
buildings are even collapsing. In terms of academic infrastructures 
(textbooks, scientific equipment etc), rural schools seem not to be part 
of governments plan to provide such. In fact about ¼ of the student 
produced in the rural areas are half-baked students who can hardly 
compete with those who schooled in the cities.  This could be seen in 
admission list of various schools in the state where most students 
offered admission seems to be from the city. There has not been any 
meaningful legislation or policy to improve the plight of rural 
education.  The current policies in the state are still those of the 
                                                           23Arikewugo O. “The Politics of Universal Education in Nigeria.” In T. Ajaji, J. O. 
Fadipe, P. K. Ojedele and E. E 2002, 32. 
24Impact of Education in Rural Development Process, Retrieved  On 2 March, 2021 
From www.researchclue.com 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the Dynamics of Rural Education System in Nigeria 
251 
 
national and international bodies to improve education in the world; 
such as the UBE, national policy on education and the Millennium 
Development Goal. The implementation of these policies seems to be 
more favourable to the cities.  
 
Rural Education and the NYSC 
Education in Nigeria is an instrument "par excellence" for effecting 
national development. It has witnessed active participation by non-
governmental agencies, communities, and individuals as well as 
government intervention.25  It is therefore desirable for the Nation to 
spell out in clear and unequivocal terms the philosophy and objectives 
that underlie its investment in education. The National Policy on 
Education seeks to fulfil that role. The need for a national policy on 
education came about as a result of the 1969 National Curriculum 
Conference which was attended by a cross-section of Nigerians. The 
conference was a culmination of expressions of general dissatisfaction 
with the existing educational system which had become irrelevant to 
national needs, aspirations and goals.26  After the National Curriculum 
Conference, a seminar of experts drawn from a wide range of interest 
groups within Nigeria was convened in 1973. The seminar, which 
included voluntary agencies and external bodies, deliberated on what a 
national policy on education for an independent and sovereign Nigeria 
should be. 
The outcome of the seminar was a draft document which; after due 
comments were received from the states and other interest groups, led 
to the final document, the National Policy on Education, first published 
in 1977. According to the National Policy on Education, the objectives 
are as follows: 
                                                           25Obadare, Ebenezer “Statism, Youth and Civic Imagination: A Critical Study of the 
National Youth Service Corps” (NYSC), Centre for Civil Society, Old Building, 
Houghton Street, London, (2005).  
26Obadare, Ebenezer “Statism, Youth and Civic Imagination”…2005. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                               E. Z. Ambrose 
252 
 
• the inculcation of national consciousness and national unity; 
• the inculcation of the right type of values and attitudes for the 
survival of the individual and the Nigerian society; 
• the training of the mind in the understanding of the world 
around; and the acquisition of appropriate skills and the 
development of mental, physical and social abilities and 
competencies as equipment for the individual to live in and 
contribute to the development of the society. 
Nigerian educational system was modelled after British model. The 
model is bereft of lofty realities that place indigenization into the 
curriculum compendium and self- reliance. These models were based 
on the same problematic ‘‘moral prisms’’ that guided mainstream 
development theory. The institutionalization of colonial models of 
development in Nigeria conceptualized youths as key agents in 
constructing a Nigerian identity.27  
 
Challenges Facing Education in Rural Areas of Nigeria 
Whereas the problem of education in Nigeria is perceived to be general, 
it is said to be more severe in the rural areas.28  “Some of these noted 
challenges are lack of zeal and interest by teachers due to poor and 
delayed salary and poor condition of work, frequent strike action by 
teachers, lack of curricular and other materials such as textbooks, 
libraries, instructional materials and at times classrooms, desk and 
chairs.”  Nevertheless, it has been asserted that, “about 2000 (mostly 
primary) schools existing in the rural areas in Nigeria are said to have 
no classrooms and lessons are received under trees or thatched 
houses.” It is observed that instability of the government institutions 
and lack of infrastructure that is transportation, communications, and 
                                                           27Halloway …, 2013. 
28Anyaegbu R, Christman, D.E and Jingpu, C. The Challenges of Rural Education in 
Nigeria: Potential Lessons from China. E Journal of Teaching and Learning in 
Diverse Setting. Vol. I, No. 2, (2004), 160-174. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the Dynamics of Rural Education System in Nigeria 
253 
 
utilities are part of the challenges.29  Many primary schools in the rural 
areas are not even connected to the power supply grid and are 
therefore unable to take advantage of new development in educational 
technologies. Other challenges are low community participation in 
education planning and policy implementation, poverty, corruption, 
cultural challenges, psychological challenges, socialization challenges, 
insecurity and political crisis and poor implementation of plan. Due to 
this situation and personal reasons, many teachers reject posting to 
rural areas while those that accept posting treat their presence in such 
areas as a part time assignment. Yet, effectively educating the rural 
population that make up over 60% of the country is a necessary 
precondition for national development. 
Furthermore, it has been opined that “rural education is key to rural 
development and an essential building block of national development; 
that poverty cannot be eradicated without eliminating illiteracy among 
the rural populace and without finding a systematic way to raise their 
level of knowledge.”30Hence, there is the general consensus that the 
rate of agricultural development and rural transformation is directly 
related to the educational standard of the rural communities.  Such 
rural education programme will widen the rural populace’s horizon 
and predispose them to greater receptivity of new ideas.31 The need 
thus arises for appropriate reforms and policies to address pertinent 
                                                           29Dike, V. “The State of Education in Nigeria and the Health of the Nation”, 2004, 
www.AfricaEconomicAnalysis.org.   
30Anyaegbu R, Christman, D.E and Jingpu, C.  The Challenges of Rural Education in 
Nigeria: Potential Lessons from China. E Journal of Teaching and Learning in 
Diverse Setting.  Vol. I, No. 2, (2004), 160-174.   
31Fabunmi, M. Social and Political Context of Educational Planning and 
Administration, (Ibadan: Distance Learning Centre, University of Ibadan, Ibadan, 
2003). 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                               E. Z. Ambrose 
254 
 
issues affecting the development of our educational system especially 
as it concerns education in the rural areas. 
There may or may not be a primary school, and it may or may not give a 
complete primary course. It is no wonder that those who have come to 
appreciate the hospitals and schools, the tap-water and electric light, 
the range of shops and the bustle of the more modern towns, prefer to 
move, if they can, to a town, even though living in a town costs them 
more. The village school stands out imposingly in contrast to the huts 
and small houses, but closer inspection reveals that it, too, is of the 
simplest construction, often just a row of oblong rooms filled with 
benches and blackboards. There is little apparatus; the walls are nearly 
bare and books are few. Often there are difficulties in looking after 
apparatus and books, even when they can be afforded. The school 
building may lack doors and windows, and so the wind and the rain 
drive goats to enter unimpeded. White ants may quickly destroy 
anything that is not specially protected. The classes for the youngest 
children are often overcrowded, and sometimes the children are so 
crammed together that it is impossible for the teacher to get round to 
see the work of those in the centre. But higher up the school, the classes 
get smaller and smaller. The bigger children are wanted to help at 
home or in the field, or they may have got bored and left school, or their 
parents, especially those with in- creasing families, may no longer be 
able to afford the fees.32  
The teachers will usually have had some years of secondary education, 
in many cases up to school certificate level. Some will, in addition, have 
had two years at a teacher-training college, but many will be untrained, 
especially in those areas where there has been a rapid expansion of 
education. They will not be the intellectual cream of their generation, 
because there are so many more attractive careers than teaching. 
                                                           32Griffiths V.L, The Problems Of Rural Education, (New York:  UNESCO International 
Institute for Education Planning, 1989), 62. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the Dynamics of Rural Education System in Nigeria 
255 
 
Moreover, their general background and sophistication will be very 
limited. Nearly everywhere, they suffer from a sense of grievance. One 
reason for this is that their rates of pay are usually not as favorable as 
those of many others who have received the same amount of education. 
Another reason in many countries is that their prestige, which once 
was high in rural areas when they were the only educated persons, has 
inevitably slumped with the spread of education. This picture of rural 
limitations is here and there relieved by the presence of an exceptional 
individual, such as a devoted headmaster or a strong progressive 
personality amongst the members of a leading family. Traditional social 
attitudes and the impact of improved agricultural production and 
marketing can drastically modify one or more of these features of rural 
life. Nevertheless, for vast areas of the developing countries these are 
the hard conditions which have to be faced. They are conditions which 
quickly become obvious to any foreign observer, even on a quite brief 
acquaintance with rural life.33 
 
Historic Aims of Going to School 
Whatever may be the official aims of education and the hopes of 
educators, the fact is that most parents look on the schools as a means 
of escape for their children from the hardships and privations of rural 
life. To establish special schools for rural children, where the 
curriculum deliberately attempts to keep them on the land, is to thwart 
their hopes and ambitions for their children and for their own old age. 
A recent survey in one of the developing rural countries showed that 
very few parents wished their children to become farmers. Experience 
would seem to show that in most areas special schools for rural 
children would be completely unacceptable. This is understandable if 
one thinks of the origin of the modern school. It did not originate in any 
attempt by rural communities to improve their own way of life. It was 
introduced by foreigners, religious bodies, or colonial governments, 
                                                           33Griffiths V.L, The Problems of…, 64. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                               E. Z. Ambrose 
256 
 
and its first economic effect was to siphon off a few of the brightest 
children into clerical and other white-collar employment. The tradition 
persists, and is unlikely to change until farming can show greater 
financial returns, stability, and ease than the white-collar jobs.  It is 
unnecessary to say more about the proposal for a separate system of 
rural education, because it is, in fact, rarely taken seriously by the 
Government.34 
 
Mother Tongue Language Curriculum Implementation Challenges 
An area that has raised controversy among scholars in the National 
Policy of Education is commitment to language.35Thus, Section 1 
subsection 10 of the Policy on Language in NPE (2004) states that the 
administration recognized that language was important in promoting 
social interaction, facilitating national cohesion, and ensuring cultural 
preservation and therefore every child will have an opportunity to 
learn the language of his or her immediate environment. Therefore, in 
the interest of the country it was a requirement that each child learnt at 
least one of the three Nigerian languages, namely Hausa, Igbo and 
Yoruba. English serves as the official language and for literacy purpose, 
meaning it’s used for official processes, and in secondary and higher 
education as well as in the judicial system.36 The arising argument 
among some scholars is that the adoption of the colonial language as 
the official language and in instruction in schools has impacted 
negatively on the use and development of indigenous languages.37  
                                                           34Griffiths V.L, The Problems of…, 65. 
35Olagbaju, O. O. “Multilingual Education in Nigeria: Policy, practice, challenges 
and solutions,” Journal of Education and Practice, Vol.5 No.6, (2014), 66-73. 
36Federal Republic of Nigeria: National policy on Education, (Abuja: Government 
Press, 2004).   
37Fafunwa, B. “The national policy on education: some factors militating against 
implementation,” Journal of Nigerian Education Research Association Vol. 4, No. 1, 
(2009), 9. Retrieved on February, 27 2021. Available at 
https://www.researchgate.net/publication/234662139. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the Dynamics of Rural Education System in Nigeria 
257 
 
Another author supports the challenge of the multilingual education in 
Nigeria noting that although the NPE allows the use of the local 
languages and somewhat gives superiority to English thus the problem 
of how to fully implement indigenous language continues.38  The 
language dilemma came across clearly in the work of Emenanjo39  who 
wondered why the mother tongue (MT) or the language of one’s 
immediate community is considered so important at the pre-primary 
level as an integral part of the child's culture. The author also 
questioned the link between the home and the school, and the reason it 
should be "principal" and not "solely" used at this level. Emenanjo also 
queried ``how people identify the language(s) of the immediate 
community in pluralistic settings like urban centers or international 
communities like universities.40The problem with language is based on 
how to justify use of three languages when other languages are present, 
and secondly on how to ensure that the selected languages have 
enough materials to sustain teaching. For example it has been rightly 
observed a hitch in adopting an indigenous language as a language of 
instruction in Nigerian schools is justifying adoption of one indigenous 
language with about 270 indigenous languages. While all these 
languages may qualify as instructional tongues for early primary 
classrooms in Nigeria, it has been noted also that many of the smaller 
languages have no written orthography, which makes materials 
production quite difficult.41 
                                                           38Olagbaju, O. O. “Multilingual education in Nigeria: Policy, practice, challenges 
and solutions,” Journal of Education and Practice, Vol.5, No. 6, (2014), 66-73.  
39Emenanjo E.N. “Language and the national policy on Education: Implications and 
prospects”, 1985. Retrieved on 22nd of February,\2021.Available at 
http://fafunwafoundation.tripod.com/fafunwafoundation/id9.html  
40Emenanjo E.N. “Language and the national policy on…, 129. 
41Olagbaju, O. O. “Multilingual education in Nigeria: Policy, practice, challenges 
and solutions,” Journal of Education and Practice, Vol. 5, No. 6, (2014), 66-73.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                               E. Z. Ambrose 
258 
 
By and large, agreed with this perception having conducted a study in 
which teachers indicated that they had a challenge in obtaining enough 
content and materials in the indigenous language. Hence, it has been 
argued further that, the way for Nigeria to incorpsorate fully the 
indigenous languages is by adopting them fully as official languages and 
in instruction at different levels of education. Currently, the NPE allows 
use of indigenous language in lower education levels, but students 
change to English in secondary and post-secondary.42 Furthermore, as 
noted by Adegbite (2009), the unequal use of English and indigenous 
languages in the country is an important contributor to the 
underdevelopment in Nigeria. The emerging knowledge is that an 
effective NPE would find a way to balance between the indigenous 
languages and English, or promote more use of the indigenous 
languages.43 The probability would then be useful in adopting a 
language that would create the platform needed to promote national 
development.44 
Underlining the importance of the use of indigenous languages is the 
notion that they reflect distinctive histories, cultures, and identities 
that underlie the conceptualization of the society. The identity includes 
the traditional knowledge of the land. The UNESCO in confirmatory 
                                                           42Fafunwa, B. “The National policy on Education: Some factors militating against 
implementation. Journal of Nigerian Education Research Association Vol. 4, No.1, 
(2009), 1-9 Retrieved on February 27th 2021. Available at 
https://www.researchgate.net/publication/234662139  
43Adegbite, W. “Languages and the challenges of education in Nigeria,” Journal of 
the Nigeria English Studies Association, Vol.1, No. 4, (2009), 11-28. Retrieved on 
February 27, 2021. Available at 
http://www.nigeriaenglish.org/content/v14/1/adegbite2.pdf 
44Ofulue, C. I. “Literacy at a distance in multilingual contexts: Issues and 
challenges,” The International Review of Research in Open and Distributed 
Learning, Vol. 12, (2011), 6. Retrieved June 27, 2021. Available at 
http://www.irrodl.org/index.php/irrodl/article/view/981/1957 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the Dynamics of Rural Education System in Nigeria 
259 
 
asserts that, languages form the baseline of cultural identity, and 
linguistic diversity is an important part of cultural diversity. Notably, 
language plays an important part in the progress of the nation 
including the fight against poverty, hunger and disease and thus needs 
to be part of the national planning process.45 Indigenous languages in 
particular are crucial to preserving indigenous knowledge, because the 
ability to speak ones native language helps people to be pleased about 
who they are in relation to themselves, their communities and to 
creation. The India Control of Indian Education (1972) offers a notable 
explanation on the importance of indigenous language, asserting that  
“Language is the outward expression of an accumulation of learning 
and experience shared by a group of people over centuries of 
development”. It continued to assert that language was not simply a 
vocal symbol, but a dynamic tool that shaped the way a person thought, 
looked at his world, and the development of his worldview.  Therefore, 
knowing ones indigenous language was helpful in ensuring a person 
knew who he was, and became proud of his heritage and language. 
However, many African languages have become extinct while the 
majority of them are on the verge of extinction.46 It affirms strongly 
that, “Languages disappear for many reasons, but usually it is because 
the speakers are pressured to adapt to a more dominant culture. The 
imposition of the language of the colonialist, chiefly English and French 
in most African nations no doubt has impacted negatively in the 
development of the continent”. Understandably, Africans and in 
                                                           45Ofulue, C. I. “Literacy at a distance in multilingual…, 8. 
46UNESCO (2006) Plan of action world program for human right education: 
Retrieved on 25th February, 2021. Available at http://unesdoc.unesco.org/images/ 
0014/ 001478/147853e.pdf  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                               E. Z. Ambrose 
260 
 
particular Nigerians need the colonial languages for interaction with 
their neighbors and the international community.47  
To this end therefore, as it has been noted in NPE for Nigeria to interact 
smoothly with its neighbours, it was appropriate for all Nigerians to 
learn to use French as the other official language in the country and it 
should be made compulsory in schools. The author noted that however 
despite NPE encouraging acquisition of French as another language, 
only a few public and private primary and secondary schools learn the 
language. A reason for this is that many schools do not have a qualified 
French teacher. The availability of teachers and content is a strong 
contributor to the continued use of English in official and instructional 
language over others. The quality of the education in primary schools in 
rural Nigeria is also hampered by failure to use a standardized language 
of instruction. As language plays an important part in the progress of 
the nation including the fight against poverty, hunger and disease and 
thus needs to be part of the national planning process.48  The national 
policy on education clearly stipulates that the language of instruction 
should be that of the immediate environment.49  The reasoning is that 
using a language that the learners are conversant with will make the 
transition from home to school less dramatic and traumatic for the 
children and equally enhance understanding and comprehension of the 
learnt concepts. However, it has emerged that the majority of rural 
primary schools use English as the language of instruction. The other 
schools use pidgin and the local languages as the language of 
                                                           47Odukoya, D. “Formulation and implementation of educational policies in Nigeria. 
Educational Research Network for West and Central Africa (ERNCAWA) 2009, 
Retrieved on February 26, 2021. Available at 
http://www.slideshare.net/ernwaca/formulation-and-implementation-of-
educational- policies-in-nigeria 
48Ofulue, C. I. “Literacy at a distance in multilingual contexts…, 2011. 
49Federal Ministry of Education “Nigerian education sector diagnosis; a Frame…, 
17. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the Dynamics of Rural Education System in Nigeria 
261 
 
instruction. In most rural families, English is hardly spoken and in the 
few homes where the family members speak in English, they hardly use 
the intelligent and standard form of the language. 
 
Funding as a problem of education in Nigeria 
As reported by The International Organization for Migration (2014), 
‘‘Funding of education remains a great challenge in Nigeria. This has 
been a recurring decimal in the national polity. Budget allocation for 
the education sector falls abysmally below the United Nations’ 
suggested 26 per cent of the total budget with the total deregulation of 
the educational sector in Nigeria at all levels, funding remains a great 
challenge to the sector”50 Underfunding has greatly affected the 
dwindling quality of education as lack of adequate funds leads to 
insufficient supply of essential material and human resources to 
facilitate achievement of the set educational goals.51 
The government has to put into consideration the high population 
growth in order to allocate sufficient funds to cater for the needs of all 
the children. Limited funding has also led to inability to access learning 
resources that are up-to-date and of high quality.  Learners have to 
contend with poor quality resources that hardly support educational 
achievement. In rural Nigeria, there are insufficient textbooks and 
other critical guides to aid in understanding of the taught concepts. 
Thus, implementation of the educational policy is pegged on availability 
of sufficient resources, as this will encourage teacher-learner 
interaction. 
 
 
 
                                                           50International Organization for Migration, “Promoting better management of 
migration in Nigeria. Abuja, 2014. Retrieved on February 25, 2021. Available at 
https://nigeria.iom.int/sites/default/files/newsletter/202014.pdf, 26. 
51Abidogun…, 2015 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                               E. Z. Ambrose 
262 
 
Another problem is Teachers’ problem 
The challenges of teachers are rampant across rural schools in Nigeria. 
There is poor as well as delayed salaries which have continued to 
hamper teachers motivation in the rural communities. This trend has 
resulted in frequent strike action that viciously disrupts the education 
process. In addition, the poor working conditions also hamper the 
ability to deliver on their mandate. The majority of the teachers do not 
like working in rural schools due to these inherent challenges. The 
teachers posted to such rural schools are not motivated and often treat 
their jobs as part time engagements. Cases of teacher absenteeism are 
high, thereby affecting the overall quality in education. The government 
policy stipulates that every Nigerian teacher should be duly qualified 
with the minimal certification being the Nigeria Certificate in 
education.52  
However, a spot check into the rural primary schools reveals that full 
compliance to this policy directive is yet to take effect. In certain 
schools in rural south east Nigeria, teachers with TC11 and WAEC 
qualifications are still teaching in certain primary schools. Statistics 
indicate that only about 70% of the teachers have the requisite 
qualifications to effectively teach in the primary schools.53The quality 
of teachers in Nigeria is relatively low. The teacher plays a critical role 
in ensuring the potential of all the learners is realized. Indeed, the 
quality of the teacher is essential in ensuring that the education results 
of the learners are continually improved. Statistics indicate that right 
                                                           52Federal Ministry of Education “Nigerian education sector diagnosis; a Frame 
work for re-engineering the educational sector”, 2005. Retrieved on February 26, 
2021. Available at 
http://planipolis.iiep.unesco.org/upload/Nigeria/Nigeria%20Education   
53Ike, P. “Problems and politics of educational policies and…, 7. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the Dynamics of Rural Education System in Nigeria 
263 
 
from the admission into teacher education programs in the universities 
and colleges, the teachers are extremely demoralized.54 
The mandate to place students to different courses lies with the Joint 
Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) .The board generally picks 
students who did not perform exemplary well in the placement exams 
and thus missed slots in the more competitive courses. This means that 
the candidates who pursue teacher education are generally of low 
quality and do so due to lack of alternative professional courses. 
Primary school teachers lack support from the supervisors and other 
professional colleagues, thereby contributing to lack of professional 
accountability.  Lack of proper remuneration further compounds the 
problem of job performance and the retention rates of the teachers are 
relatively low as the majority move on to other opportunities as soon 
as they arise.55 To solve the perennial shortage of staff in the rural 
schools, the state government had directed that about 75% of the 
deployed NYSC members had to be posted to the rural schools.56 
In addition, the government would introduce a special allowance for 
these officers as a means of motivating them as well as enhancing 
retention of staff in the rural areas.57  However, it emerged that the lewd 
implementation modalities have hampered the enforcement of this 
policy. Another policy aimed at solving the problem of teacher shortage 
requires that a teacher does not teach in an urban school for a period 
                                                           54Aiyamenkhue, E. “The challenges of Nigeria education system and the way 
forward 2011.Retrieved on February 12, 2021.Available at 
http://www.thenigerianvoice.com/news/78102/1/the-challenges-of-nigeria-
education-systemand-the.html 
55Aiyamenkhue, E. “The challenges of Nigeria education system and”…12. 
56 Ike, P. “Problems and politics of educational policies and implementation in…, 
23. 
57Federal Ministry of Education “Nigerian education sector diagnosis; a Frame…, 
2005. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                               E. Z. Ambrose 
264 
 
exceeding five years.58  This policy aims at ensuring that even the 
experienced teachers teach in the rural schools, thereby enhancing 
education access to virtually all learners. However, the implementation 
of this policy has been marred by the massive corruption that exists in 
Nigeria. Teachers bribe to ensure that they remain in the urban schools. 
In other cases, failure by the ministry officials to strictly implement the 
policy leads to rampant teacher absenteeism that adversely affects the 
quality of education in the rural public schools. 
 
Poor infrastructure and learning environment 
There is an acute shortage of curricular as well as other instructional 
materials, textbooks and stationary in the rural Nigerian schools. In 
some areas, there are no basic infrastructure such as classrooms and 
thus lessons are undertaken under such unsafe locations as thatched 
houses or even under trees. There are certain schools without seats 
and the learners are forced to sit on the floor during their lessons. 
Other schools lack critical amenities such as toilets, which adversely 
affects the learning process. Science laboratories, sports equipment, 
play grounds and workshops are critical facilities which are alien to a 
majority of the rural primary schools in Nigeria. The undeveloped 
government institutions as well as infrastructure have also spilled over 
to the education sector. For example, due to lack of a well-developed 
transportation network in rural Nigeria, several schools are virtually 
inaccessible. In addition, the majority of the rural primary schools 
cannot incorporate E-education, as they have no access to electricity. 
Such schools cannot benefit from the emerging technologies in a bid to 
improve on the educational achievements of the learners. 
 
 
 
                                                           58Federal Ministry of Education “Nigerian education sector diagnosis; a Frame…, 
2005. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the Dynamics of Rural Education System in Nigeria 
265 
 
Prospects for NYSC and Rural Education in Nigeria. 
There is a need for proper funding of the Ministry of Education to 
actualize its tasks, creating well-articulated program for rural 
development which will reduce the variation in the administration and 
performance of rural development program in Nigeria, providing 
adequate teaching staff that are properly trained and certified, 
providing teaching aids for imparting quality education and 
incorporate in curriculum our traditional education which are the 
cardinal goals for development of the latent physical and intellectual 
skills. 
There is also the need for inculcating respect for elders and those in a 
position of authority, acquiring specific vocational training and 
developing a healthy attitude towards honest labour, and 
understanding, appreciating and promoting the cultural heritage of the 
community at large, increasing state and local government 
commitment and participation, establishing parent rural directorate to 
make the parents conscious about education and encourage them to 
send their children to school. 
Government should have political consciousness to deal with parents 
that do not send their children to school, establish police force that will 
arrest the children of school age that are roaming around during school 
hours and punish their parents accordingly. The ministry will 
collaborate with states so that schools can be visited to make sure 
teachers are discharging their duties. Technical vocational education 
and training (TVET) should be made available in schools.59  
 
 
                                                           59Abdulkarim Alhaji Isa et al, “Restructuring School Education in Rural Nigeria: 
Issues and Challenges” International Journal of Research and Innovation in Social 
Science (IJRISS) |Volume III, Issue XII, December (2019) |ISSN 2454-6186, 2-4. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                               E. Z. Ambrose 
266 
 
Recommendations 
The following recommendations were offered to help the NYSC Scheme 
consolidate on the gains of community development service: 
• Security of lives and properties must be guaranteed so as to 
sustain the willingness of graduates of tertiary institutions to 
participate in NYSC Scheme; acceptance of postings to various 
communities in the nook and cranny of the country; as well as, 
readiness to play active role in the discharge of community 
development service in their communities of service. 
• Also, adequate monitoring and evaluation should be done to 
ensure that project funds are properly utilized. This will 
motivate Corps members to work. Individual Corps members 
who have personal projects to embark on would be encouraged 
to do so. 
• It is further recommended that commitment of the Scheme’s 
management and proper guidance of Corps members as well as 
availability of operational facilities and logistics would go a long 
way in tackling aforementioned challenges confronting the 
provision of community development services. 
 
Conclusion 
At this juncture, one can conveniently submit that the NYSC Scheme 
have indeed brought many development in the areas of human 
integration, education, social and cultural integration amongst several 
others. This is evident in scores of social, economic and political 
activities it involves in. For instance, Corps members in the Scheme 
have been used as staff or/and are regularly invited to participate in the 
conduct of such sensitive National assignments as it is currently done 
by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) where they 
are being used as Ad-hoc staff for various elections across the Nation. 
The study has established that, the challenges associated with rural 
education can be holistically addressed if more allocations are made to 
the educational sector and a special package given to rural teacher as a 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the Dynamics of Rural Education System in Nigeria 
267 
 
way of encouragement and motivation while joining forces with the 
NYSC Scheme in delivering quality education to rural communities 
across Nigerian where Corps members are posted to serve their father 
land.  The chapter concludes that, despite the myriads of challenges that 
the NYSC Scheme is been faced with, the programme have achieved a 
lot in the areas of national integration, and towards enhancing peaceful 
coexistence between and amongst different communities in Nigeria. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                               E. Z. Ambrose 
268 
 
Bibliography 
 
Abidogun, B.A. “Education sector reforms and childhood education for 
rural development in Nigeria,” An unpublished monograph, 
reviewed on the 28/02/2012   from www.transformedu. 
Org/linkclick.aspx. 2012. 
Ademowo, Y.”NYSC: Exploring the Diversity in the Unity of Nigeria”, 
2007. Retrieved on February 26, 2021, from www.nigerian-
newspaper.com/national_youth_service_Corps.htm  
Abdullahi, M. Importance of National Youth Service. Kwara Kopa 
Magazine, 2015 (A), NYSC (Kwara: Press and Public Relations 
Unit, April 14th, 2016). 
Adegbite, W. “Languages and the challenges of education in Nigeria,” 
Journal of the Nigeria English Studies Association, Vol.1, No. 4, 
(2009) Retrieved on February 27, 2021. Available at 
http://www.nigeriaenglish.org/content/v14/1/adegbite2.pdf 
Aghenta, J. A.A, “Turning Point in Education and Development in 
Nigeria”, Inaugural Lecture Series 58 of University of Benin, 
Benin Delivered on January   24, 2001. 
Agumagu, A. C., Adesope, O. M., & Mathews-Njoku, E. C., “Attitude of 
Youth Corpsers towards the Community Development Service 
of NYSC Nigeria”, Journal of Agricultural and Social Research 
(JASR), Vol. 6, No.1, (2006). 
Aluko, O.E. “The Impact of urbanization on housing development: The 
Lagos experience, Nigeria”, Ethiopian Journal of Environmental 
Studies and Management, Vol. 3, No.3, 2005. 
Amana, E. We can take our people up there: An examination of leadership 
and democracy in Nigeria. (Lagos: Union Communications and 
Publishers Limited, 1997). 
Ajayi, A. “Danger signposts for the Nigerian State”, Thisday, February, 
11. 2000. 
Arikewugo O. “The Politics of Universal Education in Nigeria.” In T. 
Ajaji, J. O. Fadipe, P. K. Ojedele and E. E 2002. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the Dynamics of Rural Education System in Nigeria 
269 
 
Anyaegbu R, Christman, D.E and Jingpu, C. The Challenges of Rural 
Education in Nigeria: Potential Lessons from China. E Journal of 
Teaching and Learning in Diverse Setting. Vol. I, No. 2, (2004). 
Abdulkarim Alhaji Isa et al, “Restructuring School Education in Rural 
Nigeria: Issues and Challenges” International Journal of 
Research and Innovation in Social Science (IJRISS) |Volume III, 
Issue XII, December (2019) |ISSN 2454-6186. 
Aiyamenkhue, E. “The challenges of Nigeria education system and the 
way forward 2011.Retrieved on February 12, 2016. Available at 
http://www.thenigerianvoice.com/news/78102/1/the-
challenges-of-nigeria-education-systemand-the.html 
Bamidele, L., “NYSC: An enduring legacy. A public lecture organized in 
Abuja on June 4, 1998. Retrieved February 27, 2021, from 
http//www.onlinenigeria.com/links/NYSC 
Dada, S.A “Language Contact and Language Conflict: The Case of 
Yoruba- English Bilinguals”. In Kansas Working Papers in 
Linguistics (forthcoming), 2007. 
Dike, V. “The State of Education in Nigeria and the Health of the 
Nation”, 2004, www.AfricaEconomicAnalysis.org.   
Emenanjo E.N. “Language and the national policy on Education: 
Implications and prospects”, 1985. Retrieved on 22nd of 
February, 2021.Available at 
http://fafunwafoundation.tripod.com/fafunwafoundation/id9.
html  
Fabunmi, M. Social and Political Context of Educational Planning and 
Administration, (Ibadan: Distance Learning Centre, University 
of Ibadan, Ibadan, 2003). 
Fafunwa, B. “The national policy on education: some factors militating 
against implementation,” Journal of Nigerian Education 
Research Association Vol. 4, No. 1, (2009), 9. Retrieved on 
February, 27 2021. Available at 
https://www.researchgate.net/publication/234662139. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                               E. Z. Ambrose 
270 
 
Federal Republic of Nigeria: National policy on Education, (Abuja: 
Government Press, 2004).   
1 Federal Ministry of Education “Nigerian education sector diagnosis; a 
Frame work for re-engineering the educational sector”, 2005. 
Retrieved on November 16, 2015. Available at 
http://planipolis.iiep.unesco.org/upload/Nigeria/Nigeria%20E
ducation   
Igboanusi, Herbert and Lothar Peter, Languages in Competition. The 
Struggle for Supremacy among Nigeria’s Major Languages. 
English and Pidgin. (Frankfurt an Main: Peter Lang., 2005.) 
Ijaduola, K.O. Education in Nigeria: An Historical Perspective, (Ogun: 
Ijebu-Ode, Lucky Odoni (Nig.) Enterprises. 1998). 
Imam, H., “Educational Policy in Nigeria from the Colonial Era to the 
Post-Independence Period”, Italian Journal of Sociology of 
Education, Vol. 1, (2012). 
National Open University, Introduction to Rural Sociology. Course 
Guide, (Lagos: National Open University, 2008). 
Impact of Education in Rural Development Process, Retrieved on 2 
March, 2021 from www.researchclue.com 
National Youth Service Corps: ABC of Community Development Service. 
Abuja, Nigeria: National Youth Service Corps, 2005.  
National Policy on Education Federal Republic of Nigeria, (Revised) 
Lagos: Federal Government Press, 1981. 
1Onokerhoronye. A.E. “Planning for rural development in Nigeria: A 
spatial approach”, Community Development Journal, Vol.13, 
No.1, (1978).  
Obadare, Ebenezer “Statism, Youth and Civic Imagination: A Critical 
Study of the National Youth Service Corps” (NYSC), Centre for 
Civil Society, Old Building, Houghton Street, London, 2005. 
Odukoya, D. “Formulation and implementation of educational policies 
in Nigeria. Educational Research Network for West and Central 
Africa (ERNCAWA) 2009, Retrieved on February 26, 2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the Dynamics of Rural Education System in Nigeria 
271 
 
Available at http://www.slideshare.net/ernwaca/formulation-
and-implementation-of-educational-   policies-in-Nigeria  
Obayori, F. “Toying with the Nigerian Project”, Vanguard, September, 
26, 2002, 25. 
1Okonta, I.  “Nigeria and the world: Re-thinking Nigeria (3)”, Thisday, 
May, 21.2000, 7. 
Obanya P. “Major Challenges to the Development of Secondary 
Education in Nigeria”, Paper Presented At The First Regional 
Conference On Secondary Education In Africa (SEIA), Kampala, 
Uganda, June 9-13. 2003. 
Okoh, E. “High Level Education, Manpower Development and Training.  
A key to sustainable Economic growth and Development,” 
Inaugural Lecture Series 63, University of Benin: 2002. 
1Olagbaju, O. O. “Multilingual Education in Nigeria: Policy, practice, 
challenges and solutions,” Journal of Education and Practice, 
Vol.5 No.6, (2014). 
Olagbaju, O. O. “Multilingual education in Nigeria: Policy, practice, 
challenges and solutions,” Journal of Education and Practice, Vol. 
5, No. 6, (2014). 
1Ofulue, C. I. “Literacy at a distance in multilingual contexts: Issues and 
challenges,” The International Review of Research in Open and 
Distributed Learning, Vol. 12, (2011), 6. Retrieved June 27, 
2021. Available at http://www.irrodl.org/index.php/irrodl/ 
article/view/981/1957 
UNESCO (2006) Plan of action world program for human right 
education: Retrieved on 25th February, 2021. Available at 
http://unesdoc.unesco.org/images/ 0014/ 
001478/147853e.pdf  
International Organization for Migration, “Promoting better 
management of migration in Nigeria. Abuja, 2014. Retrieved on 
February 25, 2021. Available at 
https://nigeria.iom.int/sites/default/files/newsletter/202014.
pdf, p.26. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                                               E. Z. Ambrose 
272 
 
Udende, P., &Salau, A. A. “National Youth Service Corps Scheme and the 
Quest for National Unity and Development: A Public Relations 
Perspective” (Ilorin: Department of Mass Communication, 
University of Ilorin, 2013). 
Uwechue, R. Reflections on the Nigerian Civil War: Facing the Future. 
(New York: Africana Publishing Corpsoration, 2004). 
World  Bank, NYSC: An Enduring Legacy, 2003. Retrieved February, 20 
2021, from www.thisdayonline.com/archive/2021/20/21. 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Knowledge Production in Nigeria 
273 
 
 11 1155 55    
    NYSC and Knowledge Production in Nigeria 
 
 
Ladi Charles Chiwar 
 
 
Introduction  
Nigeria, a country located on the western cost of Africa is a home to 
over 250 ethnic groups, with hundreds languages, and the customs and 
traditions gives the country great diversity. The three largest ethnic 
groups are Hausa, Igbo and Yoruba. The official language spoken is 
English, chosen to facilitate linguistic unity. The diversity has impacted 
balefully on her socio-political existence. The event of 1966-1970 give 
to question the unity and continued existence of the country as an 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND EDUCATION                                     Ladi Charles Chiwar 
274 
 
ethnically partitioned Nation.1 The Military Government led by General 
Yakubu Gowon (Rtd.) established the National Youth Service Corps 
(NYSC) program as a purport of achieving national integration. The 
development cannot flourish especially in heterogeneous nations. In 
Nigeria, the need for unity and bridling of all centrifugal force forth 
with after the Civil War led to the introduction of the National Youth 
Service Corps (NYSC) on 22nd May, 1973. The Scheme was established 
as an agency to restore peace after the 30th month of Nigerian Civil 
War. The unfortunate antecedent in the Nation’s history gave impetus 
to the establishment of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) to 
encourage the spirit of oneness of all Nigerians, irrespective of cultural 
or social background which contributes to unity, peace and progress of 
the country. 
Education in Nigeria is more of a public enterprise that has witnessed 
government complete and dynamic interaction and active participation. 
Education provides individuals with the knowledge and skills 
necessary to advance themselves and their nation socially economically 
and politically.2 The establishment of National Youth Service Corps 
(NYSC) has immensely contributed to the development of the 
educational sector. The NYSC scheme was put in place in an effort to 
bring attention to the social issues of the country and provide solution 
for them. The fundamental aim of the scheme is to inspire the youths of 
Nigeria to selflessly serve the communities of the Nation and express 
the spirit of unity and brotherhood, regardless of culture and social 
position.3 The term social issues refer to the various topics and 
problems that are connected with the society and the people in it. 
                                                           1 National Youth Service Corps, Historical Background, (NYSC, 2012), accessed 14th 
February, 2021, http/www.nysc.gov.ng/history2.php 2OduwafowokanBenardAdesina, The Effect Of National Youth Service Corps 
Teachers’ Input on Students’ Academic Performance in Secondary Schools in Ogun 
State, (E-Leader Singapore 2013), p3. 3 National Youth Service Corps, NYSC Handbook,1999 edition. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Knowledge Production in Nigeria 
275 
 
Social issues encompass the educative aspect, the community 
development activities of Corps member etc.4  
 
Knowledge  
Knowledge is familiarity, awareness or understanding of someone or 
something such as facts, skills or object. The term ‘’knowledge’’ refers 
to theoretical or practical understanding of a subject. It can be implicit 
or explicit, formal or informal, systematic or particular.5 It is also 
defined as something gained from good education, peers, extensive 
reading, consultations and life experiences. Dombrowski, explain that 
there are three (3) kinds of knowledge: a) Experimental Knowledge; 
this refers to knowledge gained from experience. Experimental 
knowledge is personal since it can be acquired only through direct 
interface of our sensory system and then processed by our brain. It is 
essentially based on perception and reflection. Several people having 
the same experience may acquire different experimental knowledge 
since reflecting upon a living experience means integrating it in some 
previous similar experiences, if they do exist. And knowledge structure. 
In other words, it is what we get from direct connection with the 
environment. (b) Skills knowledge; mean capacity to do something well 
usually acquired or learned. It is also referred to as knowledge about 
how to do something. It is based on experimental knowledge. They are 
interconnected and have some specific features and (c) Knowledge 
Claim are what we know or we think we know. Knowledge claim enable 
us to learn from each other and built our shared knowledge.6 
                                                           4M.A Oyebamiji and InemesitEssietUmofia, Influence of the Activities of the 
National Youth Service Corps Scheme on Knowledge of Social Issues in Host 
Communities, international journal of education and evaluation, Vol.2, No.1, 2016, 
p30 5 Oxford Dictionary, meaning of Knowledge, Oxford Dictionary 2014, retrieved 22nd 
February, 2021 6Dombrowski E, Rotenberg L, Bick M ,Theory of knowledge, (Oxford, Oxford 
University Press 2013),p38-44. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND EDUCATION                                     Ladi Charles Chiwar 
276 
 
NYSC and Knowledge Production in the Nigerian Secondary School 
The National Youth Service Corps scheme is a way that the Federal 
Government has brought education to the communities. This is why 
most Corps members are posted to schools for their primary 
assignment. This is the fact that a lot of activities are carried out in the 
schools. The impact on these young Nigerians is well documented and 
is specifically felt in the educational and health sector across the 
country. 
NYSC has always played a major role in knowledge production both in 
rural and urban development.  Most of the Corps members are posted 
to teach in schools with emphasis on rural knowledge production, 
where their services are most needed. Most Corps members posted to 
rural schools are zealous and dedicated, more aware of new means and 
ways of imparting knowledge on the students. In some part of the 
country, the school system would have collapsed without Corps 
members because many people in the rural areas are just used to 
getting things done themselves as most of the teachers are SSCE and 
NCE holders. With the deployment of NYSC members, seeing the Corps 
members fresh with in-depth knowledge, discipline and exposure, it 
boosted the moral of the Teachers in a way to improve better and 
impart knowledge on the students. 
There are some schools where special arrangements were made for 
Corps members due to shortage of teachers.7  The teachers are more 
likely to teach multiple subjects but the deployment of Corps members 
brought a massive change as Corps members undergo special induction 
on teaching methodology, class control etc. The NYSC scheme helps in 
giving ‘Handbook’ for those posted to teach to facilitate effective 
teaching and learning. Corps members not only impart knowledge, they 
also renovate class rooms, laboratories, toilets in schools and inculcate 
in the students mind the habit of sound health and cleanliness. 
                                                           7Shuaibu Ibrahim, NYSC and National Development,(Abuja: NYSC,2020), Pp26-27 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Knowledge Production in Nigeria 
277 
 
The Corps members have immensely contributed to knowledge growth 
in numerous ways, touching lives at grassroots level through education 
development group. These include: mass literacy, adult education, that 
enhance the education standard of host community, career guidance 
and counselling for students, campaign against illiteracy, girl-child 
education, extra-mural class for adults, organizing of in-school 
programme, promotion of culture and tourism. Some of these activities 
were carved out in Kpakaima Secondary School, Delta State on the 28th 
of February 2021, where the students of the school were sensitized on 
the ‘Value of Education’ as activities that are good, useful and valuable 
from education point of view; to understand that education has the 
greatest value upon their lives.8  Education does not mean teaching 
people to know what they do not know, it means teaching them to 
behave as they do not behave. The ultimate aim of education is to 
achieve good life.9 
Education is a basic instrument by which economically and socially 
relegated adults and children can lift themselves out of poverty and 
participate fully in the society as citizens. It is the basic foundation of 
our society. Education helps to invigorate our minds and mould 
inquisitive minds into intellectuals .Education is a string that can 
enable one acquire greatness in life. The students are exposed to ideas 
that gaining knowledge alone doesn’t make one educated and 
education is complete when we learn how to live and how to behave.10 
Education is self–empowerment. When they receive good education, it 
helps to work after them in any given situation. In the same vein, 
                                                           8 Happiness Christopher, 25years,Corps member, Kaduna, 15 February,2021.   9Nikita Iyer, Education Values: Meaning, Objectives and 
Sources,https://www.yourarticlelibrary.com/education/educationarel-values-
meaning- 10 M.A Oyebamiji and InemesitEssietUmofia, Influence of the Activities of the 
National Youth Service Corps Scheme on Knowledge of Social Issues in Host 
Communities, international journal of education and evaluation, Vol.2, No.1, 2016, 
p30 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND EDUCATION                                     Ladi Charles Chiwar 
278 
 
shading more light on Career, Guidance and Counselling, the students 
were guided on making choice in terms of hope and future ambitions. 
This develops into the areas of focus on what they want to study, 
become and practice in life. 
The Students of Government Girls Secondary School Kakuri Kaduna 
were part of this sensitization program by Corps members’ on the 
importance of the Girl-Child Education .The girl-child is a biological 
female offspring from birth to eighteen(18) years of age.11 This is the 
age before one becomes a young adult. During this period, the child is 
capable of being shaped, building and developing the desirable 
personality and character that is generally acceptable in the society. To 
have the knowledge that is generally acceptable in the process of 
providing information to  an inexperienced person to help him or her 
develop physically, mentally, socially, emotionally, spiritually, 
politically and economically. It is a process through which individuals 
are made functional members of their society.12To educate means to 
train the mind, character and abilities of individuals. 
Some Corps members that are sent to schools introduced the use of the 
‘Audio Visual Room’ which is an electronic media possessing both a 
sound and visual component. This helps the teacher to present the 
lesson effectively. It aids in improving the students critical an analytical 
thinking .This has greatly added to knowledge as the students were 
able to experience learning in an effective way. The audio visual 
method appeals most to the sense and gives a deeper impact as it 
                                                           11 Proshare Intelligent Investing, The value of GIRL-Child education in Nigeria, 
Retrieved 19th February, 2021 https://www.proshareng.com/news/Education-
Knowledge/The-Value-of-Girl-Child-Education-in-Nig 12Proshare Intelligent Investing, The value of GIRL-Child education in Nigeria, 
Retrieved 19th February, 2021 https://www.proshareng.com/news/Education-
Knowledge/The-Value-of-Girl-Child-Education-in-Nig 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Knowledge Production in Nigeria 
279 
 
involves greater attention in the act of learning and it helps the child to 
retain the concept taught through this aid. 13 
However in the aspect of health the Corps members visited schools and 
communities to enlighten them on health care and how to prevent 
diseases. In trying to achieve this they conduct educational campaign to 
raise awareness and improve knowledge of diseases, their system and 
treatment options. The people of the community and students can only 
make decisions if they have the right knowledge and information. 
Awareness played a role in improving access to healthcare. Corps 
members empower students and communities with information and 
skills on prevention, diagnosis, treatment, care and support.  They also 
offered free medical care to the communities.  
Corps members of the National Youth Service Corps have over the 
years been contributing to knowledge through publication and 
distribution of templates to students and members of their host 
community. Akpanedet Uduak Bassey was a Corps member who served 
in Kano in 2018-2019 and made a publication on ‘Harmful Effect of 
Excess Food Preservatives’. The work pointed out the danger of excess 
chemical in food preservatives which are harmful to the body. Foods 
have many nutrients such as carbohydrate, proteins, minerals or 
vitamins which produce energy and maintain life. These foods have 
limited life shelf and in order to maintain their quality, preservatives 
are used and it may likely be dangerous to human body.14  This is 
known as an artificial way of preserving food which is done by unclear 
radiation, vacuum packing and hypobaric packing. Synesthetic 
chemicals are used nowadays for food preservatives. It is seen as the 
most effect way longer shelf life in food and at the same time causes 
harm to the body. Harm caused by excess food preservatives include; 
                                                           13National Youth Service Corps,ABC of Community Development Service, (Abuja, 
NYSC 2014),p.5 14 National Youth Service Corps, “End of Service Year Magazine/Photo Album”, 
Kano,NYSC2019, P11. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND EDUCATION                                     Ladi Charles Chiwar 
280 
 
headache, allergies and cancer. Food preservatives are good as it 
increase the shelf life of food but when the chemical is in excess, it is 
harmful to the body. The side effect is dangerous as it can result to 
death. Food is stored for emergency and in order to avoid the damage 
to health, the Corps members point out natural ways for food 
preservation.  
 
The Role of CDS Groups in knowledge Production in Nigeria 
The contributions of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) to 
national development have recorded a massive impact in the growth 
and development of the country. The impacts of the Corps members on 
national development have been felt in diverse sectors of the critical 
areas of our national life, in which Corps members’ contributions to 
national development are most dominant. The national youth service 
Corps mobilizes, inducts and develops each year a critical segment of 
the youth within Nigeria society thereby utilizing the Corps members 
through available opportunities and support structures. 
The Community Development Service (CDS) is a cardinal programme of 
NYSC which provides Corps members with the platform of rendering 
humanitarian services.  It is through the CDS program that the Corps 
members of NYSC undertake developmental activities during their one 
year of national service to improve their host communities in one way 
or the other. It is compulsory for the Corps members to participate in 
Community Development Service as part of their contribution to the 
development of the country.15 
The ‘United Nations’, defined Community Development as “an 
educational method by which the efforts of the people themselves are 
united with those of governmental authorities to improve the 
economic, social and cultural conditions of communities, to integrate 
                                                           15 National Youth Service Corps, ABC of Community Development Service, (Nigeria: 
NYSC, 2014), P-1 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Knowledge Production in Nigeria 
281 
 
these communities into the life of the nation, to enable them to 
contribute fully to national progress.”16 
The objectives of CDS include; 
• Impacting positively on the improvement of rural community 
life. 
• Developing the spirit of entrepreneurship in the Corps 
members, to utilize the challenges which rural development 
poses and inculcate in the Nigerian Youth the ideals and 
capacities for leadership, endurance, selflessness, community 
service, national service, patriotism and creativity. 
• Providing the forum for Corps members to experiment with 
ideas and translate them into concrete achievements thereby 
relying less on foreign technology and encouraging the use of 
local raw materials in the execution of projects. 
• Harnessing the enormous talents and skills of Corps members 
into an effective machinery of change in our rural communities.  
• Providing complementary service in our National development 
activities, by ensuring that our under-privileged population 
learn basic techniques for self-help through the appropriate 
technology concept being promoted by NYSC.  
• To instil in Corps members the tradition of the dignity of labour 
and productivity and to complement the activities of 
government at all levels in the stride towards national 
development.17  
The CDS also requires that Corps members use their acquired skills to 
provide services like education, health care delivery, rural 
infrastructural and community development, agriculture, science and 
technology, and enlightenment campaign for the benefit of their host 
                                                           16United Nations, Education Sector Reform in Nigeria: A Change Management 
Challenge, (Nigeria: UNESCO Abuja Publication, 2006), P-31 17 National Youth Service Corps, ABC of Community Development Service, (Nigeria: 
NYSC, 2014), P-1 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND EDUCATION                                     Ladi Charles Chiwar 
282 
 
community. In ensuring the success of the CDS, NYSC trains the Corps 
Members to be dedicated and enthusiastic irrespective of the 
challenges they might face in so far as they are not life threatening. 18  
 
The Community Development Service has impacted positively on the 
host communities all around the country. Corps members intermingle 
and appreciate one another’s culture and background. Corps members 
are encouraged to make observations, identify the needs of the 
community and attempt to fix it based on capacity either as an 
individual or as a group after following the due process and approval. 
The goal of this group is to improve the economic, health, political and 
socio cultural condition of the host communities.19 
There are several Community Development Services designed to 
actualize the objectives of NYSC in diverse ways. One among the groups 
is the ‘Gender Vanguard’, the one referred to as the most noble of them 
all. A Corps member of Kano State Batch B, 2018, by the name Yusuf 
Akeem wrote an article on the activities of his CDS group Gender 
vanguard. A member of the group had been committed to the mission 
of the CDS that is bridging the gap between both sex by sensitizing the 
general public regularly on equality of both male and female child 
through series of awareness program. The members of the group 
visited schools, they sensitize the students on the evil effect of drug 
abuse and personal hygiene. Also, they visited hospitals such as Aminu 
                                                           18Dereck Osadere Arubayi, Youth in Development: Understanding the 
Contributions of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) to Nigeria’s National 
Development, School of Environment, Education and Development (SEED), 
Institute of Development Policy and Management, Manchester, 2015, p90 19 M.A Oyebamiji and InemesitEssietUmofia, Influence of the Activities of the 
National Youth Service Corps Scheme on Knowledge of Social Issues in Host 
Communities, international journal of education and evaluation, Vol.2, No.1, 2016, 
p32. 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Knowledge Production in Nigeria 
283 
 
Kano Teaching Hospital, donated drugs and other items to the less 
privileged. Another project carried out by the Gender Vanguard is with 
the caption ‘Yes we can pad a girl child’. it is aimed at providing a 
sanitary pad for the vulnerable and less privilege girl child.20 
One of the outstanding contributions of CDS programme to knowledge 
production in Nigeria comes through the Education development CSD 
group. This group has for years been executing projects and conducting 
programmes that add to knowledge in many instances. In 2019, the 
education development group CDS in Kano mobilized money and paid 
the school fees of seven (7) orphans. This same group also trained one 
hundred and fifty (150) students from school of Arabic Studies, Halal 
College and Rumfa College all in Kano on computer operation and 
information technology. This will no doubt enhance the students brain 
capacity and also expose them to digital learning as it is fast spreading 
in the world.21 
The Education Development CDS group also organized health talk 
which include good hygiene management, menstrual hygiene and 
prevention strategies of common disease such as; Malaria, and Typhoid 
fever. Corps Members had carried out projects like sensitization on 
adolescent reproductive health and HIV/AIDS prevention, adult literacy 
campaign, extra-mural classes for students and road safety campaign 
among many others.  The mass literacy education becomes a campaign 
when offered to the masses of people. The primary purpose of the mass 
literacy in Nigeria is to enable every illiterate citizen to acquire skills of 
reading, writing and numeracy that will help to function in his or her 
environment. This is intended to liberate the people from the illiteracy 
in Nigeria. Towards seeking for solutions, the government in Nigeria 
identified itself with the effort at eradicating illiteracy by rendering 
                                                           20National Youth Service Corps, End of Service Year Magazine/Photo Album (Kano, 
NYSC), 2019, P10. 21National Youth Service Corps..., P11. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND EDUCATION                                     Ladi Charles Chiwar 
284 
 
supports in the establishment of adult literacy classes and vocational 
skill acquisition training the provision of teaching and materials. Adult 
literacy cannot be left out when talking about mass literacy.22 An adult 
in this case is someone in the Nigerian context who is mentally, 
physically, socially and psychologically mature and who is able to 
manage his own affairs. Adult literacy therefore has to do with the 
ability of an individual (man or woman) to read, write and 
communicate in known languages. Adult literacy is a tool that can equip 
individuals to improve themselves intellectually, to empower 
themselves economically, socially, and politically relevant. The Corps 
members in this case work hand in hand with the component which is 
Reading, Writing, Mathematics, English and Cultural literacy.23 The 
reason for greater emphasis on adult literacy is that this category of 
citizens deserves serious attention so that they cannot only contribute 
to the socio-economic and political growth of the nation but also 
improve their welfare and lives. These forms of functional educational 
are given to youths and adults outside formal school system.  In recent 
times, the NYSC in collaboration with the Office of the Senior Special 
Assistant on Millennium Development Goals (OSSAP-MDGs) of the 
Presidency and other international partners (World Bank and the 
British Council) embarked on training of young Corps volunteers as 
Development Knowledge Facilitators (DKFs). The role of the DKFs is to 
act through their CDS program as advocates of the MDGs and National 
Economic Empowerment and Development Strategy. It is important to 
note that the Community Development Service program and projects 
                                                           22 J.C. Ihejirika, A Pre-View of Government Efforts in Promoting Mass Literacy in 
Nigeria: Lessons from Adult Education Historical Research,Journal of Education 
and Practice Vol. 4 No, 4 23 M.A Oyebamiji and InemesitEssietUmofia, Influence of the Activities of the 
National Youth Service Corps Scheme on Knowledge of Social Issues in Host 
Communities, international journal of education and evaluation, Vol.2, No.1, 2016, 
p30 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Knowledge Production in Nigeria 
285 
 
are largely centered on the education sector being the key area of social 
integration and knowledge transfer. 24 
The Cultural and tourism group (Band, Dance, Drama and Tourism) is 
designed to showcase the art and culture of Nigeria. Corps members 
are expected to help illuminate the history, culture and heritage of their 
host community. They also represent their states in the national 
competition organized by NYSC. They create awareness on tourism, 
identify talent creation of club and entertainment. 
Environmental protection group: Through this CDS group, Corps 
members create awareness on sustainable environment management 
and regeneration. They plant trees, sanitation, drainage control and 
erosion control. A Corps member of this group who served in 
Maikatako Bokkos Local Government Area in Jos, Batch A 2017, tell the 
activities of the group and how they contribute to people in the 
communities. As a group, they went to Bokkos market and embarked 
on sanitizing the market and the Local Government Secretariat. They 
bought brooms and trash cans.25 
The sporting events organized in schools by Corps members improve 
knowledge on social issues. By enlightening the youths on healthy 
lifestyle through participation in one form of physical activities and 
identify talents. The activities are; organizing sport competition, 
participating in sports competitions and identifying and training 
members of the community. 
Agriculture is another important sector of NYSC. The Agro-allied NYSC 
CDS group established different agricultural ventures and farm house 
equipped with modern implements to promote better food production 
                                                           24Adebola H.E and Agusiobo P.A, The Role of NYSC In The Delivery of Adult 
Education Programme In Nigeria, Unizik Orient Journal of Education, 2013, p78 25 Joshua Hussaini, Corps member,28 years,kaduna,22/02/2021. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND EDUCATION                                     Ladi Charles Chiwar 
286 
 
and security. Corp members teach communities new farming 
techniques. 
The Corps members have greatly influenced the aspect of 
entrepreneurship among host communities. Entrepreneurship is a 
multifaceted and multidisciplinary with roots in economics, 
psychological, sociology, skill acquisition and management (Carlson 
etal; 2013).26 It is the bedrock of development aspiration of most 
developed nation. The scheme aimed at uniting and improving skills of 
the youths. The Corps members use the knowledge gained from NYSC 
Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development to improve the 
life of their host communities through awareness and sensitization on 
skills acquisition and the reality that only about 10% of the Nigerian 
workforce has a wage, around 38% work in agriculture and 52% are 
self-employed. However, in the current situation of the country, one 
cannot depend on livelihood from experience gained within the four 
corners of the school classroom. There is need to acquire skill in 
entrepreneurship, business innovations as part of active means and 
source of living. The students were engaged in skill acquisition training 
in different aspect of entrepreneurship which includes; production of 
liquid soap, shoes, bags, beads making, catering services etc as a 
dependable means of living and productivity contributing to the 
growth and development of the country. 
 
Conclusion 
The NYSC scheme has recorded achievements in all facets of our 
national development. It greatly reduced the tension of the tragic Civil 
War in Nigeria, unifying national emblem of our diverse multi ethnic 
society. Over the years, the scheme has proven to become an agent of 
peace, unity and integration, building and promoting peace and 
harmony amongst the various ethnic groups in Nigeria. The scheme 
                                                           26 Mike ChikeNwosu, Youth Entrepreneurship Among University Graduates In 
Anambra State, (Nigeria 2019),p26. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Knowledge Production in Nigeria 
287 
 
outlived many upheavals and impacted positively on the development 
of the country.  The NYSC scheme through the Corps members has 
immensely contributed to knowledge in different aspects of their 
activities. The Federal Government has taken great steps to improve 
the level of literacy in the country through educational programmes, 
instructions and mass media. The NYSC scheme is one of the ways 
Federal Government developed education in the country. This is 
supported by a lot of community development projects carried out in 
schools. The knowledge imparted is particularly felt in education and 
health institutions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND EDUCATION                                     Ladi Charles Chiwar 
288 
 
Bibliography 
 
Adesina Oduwafowokan Benard, The Effect Of National Youth Service 
Corps Teachers’ Input on Students’ Academic Performance in 
Secondary Schools in Ogun State, (E-Leader Singapore 2013) 
ChristopherHappiness, 25years, Corps member, Kaduna, 15 February, 
2021.   
Dereck Osadere Arubayi, Youth in Development: Understanding the 
Contributions of the  
Dombrowski E, Rotenberg L, Bick M ,Theory of knowledge, (Oxford, 
Oxford University Press 2013). 
Ebenezer obadare, Statism ,Youth and Civic Imagination; A Critical Study of 
The National Youth Service Corps Programme in Nigeria,  (Codesria,, 
2010) 
H.E Adebola and Agusiobo P.A, The Role of NYSC In The Delivery of 
Adult Education Programme In Nigeria, Unizik Orient Journal of 
Education, 2013, p78 
Hussaini Joshua, Corps member,28 years,kaduna,22/02/2021. 
Ibrahim Shuaibu,NYSC and National Development, (Abuja: NYSC,2020). 
Ihejirika, J.C. A Pre-View of Government Efforts in Promoting Mass 
Literacy in Nigeria: Lessons from Adult Education Historical 
Research, Journal of Education and Practice Vol. 4 No, 4 
National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) to Nigeria’s National 
Development, School of Environment, Education and 
Development (SEED), Institute of Development Policy and 
Management, Manchester, 2015. 
National Youth Service Corps, “End of Service Year Magazine/Photo 
Album”, Kano, NYSC 2019. 
National Youth Service Corps, ABC of Community Development Service, 
(Nigeria: NYSC, 2014). 
National Youth Service Corps, End of Service Year Magazine/Photo 
Album (Kano, NYSC), 2019. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Knowledge Production in Nigeria 
289 
 
National Youth Service Corps, Historical Background, (NYSC, 2012), 
accessed 14 th February, 2021, 
http/www.nysc.gov.ng/history2.php 
National Youth Service Corps, NYSC Handbook, 1999 Edition. 
Nikita Iyer, Education Values: Meaning, Objectives and 
Sources,https://www.yourarticlelibrary.com/education/educat
ionarel-values-meaning- 
Nwosu Mike Chike, Youth Entrepreneurship Among University Graduates 
In Anambra State, (Nigeria 2019) 
OkaforChukwuemeka| AniJohnmary K., The National Youth Service 
Corps Programme and Growing Security Threat in Nigeria, 
Africas’ Public Service Delivery and Performance Review  vol.2 
(1) June 2014. 
Oxford Dictionary, meaning of Knowledge, Oxford Dictionary 2014, 
retrieved 22nd February, 2021. 
Oyebamiji, M.A and InemesitEssietUmofia, Influence of the Activities of 
the National Youth Service Corps Scheme on Knowledge of 
Social Issues in Host Communities, international journal of 
education and evaluation, Vol.2, No.1, 2016. 
Proshare Intelligent Investing, The value of GIRL-Child education in 
Nigeria, Retrieved 19 th February, 2021 
https://www.proshareng.com/news/Education-
Knowledge/The-Value-of-Girl-Child-Education-in-Nig 
United Nations, Education Sector Reform in Nigeria: A Change 
Management Challenge, (Nigeria: UNESCO Abuja Publication, 
2006). 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                             Bem J. Audu and M. Hamza  
290 
 
 11 1166 66    
    Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim:  
An Overview of His Achievements as 18th 
NYSC Director-General 
 
 
Bem Japhet Audu 
and 
Maryam Hamza 
 
 
Introduction 
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) has attained tremendous 
height since the assumption of office by Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim as 
the Director General (DG) of the Scheme. This is not surprising, given 
the fact that Gen Ibrahim is a thoroughbred military administrator, who 
combines scholarship, emotional intelligence and finesse in his 
administrative duties. His experiences cut across administration in the 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
291 
 
military and civil establishments, which combination have accelerated 
the pace of the modest service rendered to the NYSC.  
Key issues that confronted the Scheme upon his assumption of office 
include the need to sustain the relevance of the NYSC in a fast-changing 
world; second, inadequate motivation and welfare for Corps Members 
and staff of the Scheme. The third was the challenge of unemployment 
among the youths after the mandatory one year national service. 
Gen Ibrahim’s track record as a visionary leader readily came to play in 
tackling these challenges. He initiated a five-point policy thrust to 
address them. These five-point policy thrust include the following:  
 
/xrhombus Sustain effective utilisation of the potentials of Corps Members 
for optimal benefit;  
/xrhombus Strengthen existing collaborations with critical stakeholders; 
/xrhombus Improve on the welfare and security of Corps Members and 
staff; 
/xrhombus Pursue a technologically driven organisation to deepen 
effective service delivery;  
/xrhombus Reinvigorate the NYSC Ventures and SAED in line with the NYSC 
Act for greater impact. 
 
It is against this backdrop that this essay examines the achievements of 
Gen Ibrahim as Director General of the NYSC, using a descriptive 
approach and evidence -- based study. The paper argues that Gen 
Ibrahim has not only transformed the NYSC, but has also repositioned it 
to benefit the Corps Members, members of staff and indeed, the nation 
at large.  
The assumption here is that leadership is a process of galvanising 
resources to attain group goals. Gen Ibrahim’s leadership style has led 
to the transformation of the NYSC by strengthening the institution, in 
terms of welfare, security, innovations and technological advancement. 
Despite these laudable achievements, there have equally been 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                             Bem J. Audu and M. Hamza  
292 
 
challenges. The Corona Virus (COVID-19) pandemic threatened to 
derail the activities of the Scheme. As an astute administrator, he rose 
to the occasion through a robust coordinated response to manage the 
pandemic that has become a reference point and template for other 
establishments in the country. 
 
Towards a Biography of General Ibrahim: Trends in his Academic, 
Military and Administrative Career 
Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim (Associate Professor), was born on the 13th 
July, 1967 and hails from Nasarawa Local Government Area of 
Nasarawa State. He attended the famous University of Jos where he 
obtained Bachelor's and Master's Degrees in History (1989 and 1992 
respectively), before proceeding to bag a Post-Graduate Diploma in 
Education from Tai Solar in University of Education, Ijebu Ode, Ogun 
State. Driven by his tenacity to acquire knowledge, he went on to obtain 
a Ph.D in History from the University of Abuja in 2007. 
Since his commissioning into the Nigerian Army, he has served in 
various capacities in military formations across the country. His 
appointments and postings include: The Institute of Army Education 
(Research Officer). Researched and produced Nigerian Army Journals 
and Briefs for the Nigerian Army in particular, and the Military in 
general; NYSC (Military Assistant to the Director General) 1997-1999; 
Nigerian Defence Academy (Taught 100 and 200 Levels 2000-2004; 
National Defence College (Staff Officer I Military History 2004-2009; 
Headquarters Nigerian Army School of Education (Senior Instructor) 
2009-2011; Commandant Command Secondary School, Suleja 2012-
2014; Nigerian Defence Academy (Head of Department, History and 
War Studies), 2015-2018; and Registrar, Nigerian Army University, Biu, 
Borno State(2018-2019). 
Brigadier General S Ibrahim is a scholar of high repute, who authored, 
co-authored, edited, co-edited and contributed articles/chapters to 
numerous books and academic Journals.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
293 
 
Despite his tight schedule, Brig Gen S Ibrahim still devotes time to 
academic work, including the supervision of students' thesis and 
dissertations, serving as Internal and External Examiner of Master’s 
Students at the Ahmadu Bello University Zaria and the Nigerian 
Defence Academy, Kaduna.  
Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim was appointed 18th Director General of the 
National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), and assumed the leadership of 
the Corps on 10th May, 2019.This ushered in a transformation era for 
the Scheme which has not only been a source of immense benefit to the 
Service Corps, but the entire country in general.  
The General also had a cluster of completed courses in the military, and 
excelled in these courses.  Brig Gen Ibrahim is an Associate Professor in 
the Department of History and War Studies, Nigeria Defence Academy, 
Kaduna. These feats in both military and academic trainings, as well as 
experience in service are what marked him out as a visionary, seasoned 
and ingenious administrator.  
Since assumption of duty as the Director General of the NYSC, the 
media has been awash with bourgeoning records of his strides. His 
vision for the Scheme informed his decision to roll out a five-point 
policy thrust, geared towards utilising the potentials of the Corps 
Members maximally.  Since assumption of duty at the NYSC, his 
pragmatic leadership skill has set the Scheme on the path of 
rejuvenation and continuous relevance. Like his predecessors, he came 
up with robust and ambitious programmes, aimed at repositioning the 
Scheme as a self-sufficient and revenue -- generating government 
organisation. 
This chapter will attempt an appraisal of the delivery of these specific 
goals by the administration of Gen S Ibrahim within a short period of 
two years, in spite of the huge challenges facing the Scheme. 
Sustain effective utilisation of the potentials of Corps Members for 
optimal benefit. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                             Bem J. Audu and M. Hamza  
294 
 
The successful conduct of the 2019 NYSC Sports and Cultural Festivals 
is a remarkable achievement of the Director General in harnessing the 
huge potentials of the Corps Members for national development. The 
NYSC Sports and Cultural Festivals serve as one of the veritable 
avenues through which the Scheme promotes national unity, cultural 
integration, as well as showcasing the abundant talents of Corps 
Members in the areas of sports and culture for gainful employment in 
the sports and film industries. The Festivals were revived by the 
present management. The grand finale was held in Abuja. Not only that, 
measures were put in place to ensure that the event holds annually. 
Another success of the NYSC Director General is the production of an 
NYSC movie titled "A Call to Service" currently undergoing post 
production work. Apart from its entertainment value, the movie is 
being packaged to create public awareness on the roles of stakeholders 
to the Scheme. These stakeholders include the three tiers of 
government, Corps employers, as well as serving and prospective Corps 
Members. Ultimately, the film will promote better understanding of the 
Scheme to the public, in addition to sensitising them on their expected 
roles to the Scheme. 
Another noteworthy achievement of the Director General is the 
establishment of NYSC National Cultural Troupe. This initiative is to 
provide a veritable platform for Corps Members to develop their 
talents in drama and cultural dance, while also eliciting public support 
towards harnessing such talents through private and corporate 
patronage. Remarkably, the NYSC Cultural Troupe will also shore up 
the revenue base of the Scheme through its activities which will be 
commercialised.  
In the same vein, the NYSC Director General has successfully organised 
a National Anti-Corruption Walk. This is in furtherance of the NYSC's 
contributions to the fight against corruption through the activities of 
the Corps Anti-Corruption and Integrity CDS Group. The programme 
involved the participation of thousands of Corps Members in the first 
ever nationwide rally/road walk organised by the Economic and 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
295 
 
Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), in conjunction with the Federal 
Ministry of Youth and Sports Development on 14th February, 2020. 
The Director-General personally joined the Corps Members and 
officials in Kano State for the rally, which was tagged “Nigerian Youths 
March Against Corruption.”  
This action further boosted the commitment of the NYSC in eradicating 
corruption and promotion of good moral and ethical values in the 
country. 
The outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic nearly crippled the global 
socio-economic activities and did not spare the Scheme. The 2020 
Batch “A” Orientation Course was suspended barely eight days into the 
programme. However, the ever resourceful and proactive Director 
General challenged the creative ingenuity of Corps Members who 
responded appropriately to the challenge by producing non-
pharmaceutical intervention materials such as face-mask, liquid soap, 
alcohol - based hand sanitiser and donated same to the indigent 
populace across the length and breadth of the country. 
Under the leadership of Gen Ibrahim, the NYSC has also carried out 
public awareness campaigns on containment measures for the dreaded 
virus. The initiative of the Director General was later adopted by some  
public institutions. 
Another innovative contribution of the NYSC in the fight against COVID-
19 pandemic is the fabrication of foot-operated water, liquid soap and 
hand sanitizer dispenser by individual Corps Members in several 
States.  
For instance,  Babatunde Dolapo Dayo and Sebe Godspower - Abia 
State; Abdullahi Sani - Kano; Abdulsalam Abubakar and Obiefuna 
Ebuka - Kwara; Adeyanju Adeyemi, Afolabi Victor, Ogunmoye Victor - 
Oyo and Onyekwere Chiwotaoke – Zamfara and Ilori Deborah - FCT 
were among the Corps Members that fabricated and donated the 
devices. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                             Bem J. Audu and M. Hamza  
296 
 
In addition, Corps Members, acting on the platform of Charity 
CDS/SDGs Group, have been contributing towards mitigating the effects 
of the COVID-19 at the grassroots, through the donation of food and 
other relief items to State and Local Governments, as well as indigent 
members of the society. These strategies by the Director General paved 
the way for the Scheme to obtain approval from the National Centre for 
Disease Control (NCDC) to resume full operations, especially the 
Orientation Course. 
Relatedly, several Corps Members on teaching assignment also 
contributed towards sustaining the educational progress of their 
students by adopting virtual teaching approach while schools remained 
closed as a result of the pandemic.  
As per the pursuit of a technologically-driven organisation to deepen 
effective service delivery, the Director-General recently conducted the 
first ever video conference with the 2021 Batch ‘A’ Stream 1 Corps 
Members in all the 37 Orientation Camps. It was an avenue to interface 
with thousands of Corps Members simultaneously, in line with COVID-
19 safety protocols. He has sustained this initiative by periodically 
holding virtual meetings with serving Corps Members, as well as NYSC 
State Coordinators across the country. 
It is gratifying to disclose that the Director General's interface with 
National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) has 
ensured the equipping of the NYSC Rivers Secretariat with computers 
by the agency. That singular gesture has in no small measure deepened 
the proficiency of Corps Members and staff members in the area of 
Information technology. 
The Chief Executive introduced the inscription of date of birth on the 
Certificate of National Service and Exclusion Letter, beginning with the 
2019 Batch “A” Corps Members and 2019 Batch “C” respectively. This is 
in a bid to check the manipulation of date of birth by ineligible persons 
seeking mobilisation for National Service, and it has had a positive 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
297 
 
effect in checkmating the falsification of records for employment, visa, 
political appointments, among others. 
Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim conceptualised and designed a state-of-the-
art ICT Office for the Scheme. The design had already been forwarded 
to the Federal Capital Development Authority (FCDA) and Federal 
Ministry of Works and Housing for approval. The cost of construction 
was appropriated in the 2021 Budget, and the Scheme is awaiting the 
release of funds for its commencement.  
Other laudable efforts by Gen Ibrahim to deepen effective service 
delivery include, the development of a Five-Year Strategic Development 
Plan for the Scheme, review of the NYSC Composite  Policy Document 
and documentation of the activities of the Scheme, all aimed at 
positioning the Scheme as a research hub for academics and the 
general public. 
Under his watch, the Federal Government drafted the NYSC into the 
Presidential Steering Committee on Alternate School Programme. The 
inclusion of the Corps in the Committee is in recognition of the 
invaluable contributions of the Scheme to national development, 
particularly in the sphere of Education. 
NYSC is a repository of talents, parading the most enlightened class of 
Nigerian youths, who in forty - eight years of the Scheme's existence 
have continued to make varying degrees of multi-sectoral contributions 
to the growth and well-being of the nation.  
Therefore, the inclusion of the Scheme, whose visibility has been top-
notch in the last two years as member of the Mambila Hydro Power 
Project speaks on the high premium the Federal Government places on 
the Corps. 
Undoubtedly, membership of these august bodies have clearly 
underscored the high pedestal the Director General has taken the 
Scheme in his two years of his eventful and remarkable administration.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                             Bem J. Audu and M. Hamza  
298 
 
In respect of improving the welfare and security of Corps Members and 
staff, in a rare demonstration of empathy and commitment to the 
welfare of Corps Members, the Director General personally visited and 
encouraged Corps Member Saidu Mohammed Adamu, who was 
admitted at the Federal Teaching Hospital, Ado-Ekiti, as a result of 
gunshot injuries that he sustained while on election duties during the 
recent bye-election held in Ekiti East Local Government Area of Ekiti 
State in March 2021.  
Similar visits were also paid to several members of the Service Corps 
on admission in hospitals in Sokoto, Katsina, Edo, Plateau, Taraba and 
Kwara States, among others, following their involvement in road traffic 
accidents. 
The Director General has also paid condolence and reassuring visits to 
the families of deceased and missing Corps Members in Plateau, 
Kaduna and Edo States. Such gestures have increased the confidence of 
Corps Members and their families in the Scheme, and have also 
engendered more zeal for patriotic service by the members of the 
Corps. 
The Director General further demonstrated his commitment to Corps 
welfare by procuring prosthetic limbs for a Corps Member in 
furtherance of his welfare policy. The sum of Thirty-two Million Naira 
(N32,000,000.00) was expended to procure the limbs for Corps 
Member, Nuraddeen Tahir from Kano State, who, along with other 
Corps Members, was involved in a road traffic accident, while on his 
way to report for Primary Assignment after the 2019 Batch ‘B’ Stream 1 
Orientation Course in Taraba State. The Corps Member, who had earlier 
lost an arm at a younger age, had the other one amputated as a result of 
the accident. The artificial limbs have already been supplied, while 
Nuraddeen was trained on the effective use of the limbs before he was 
re-united with his family. With this development, he can now 
effectively perform normal tasks such as writing with the limbs. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
299 
 
The Director General relentlessly pursued the issue of increment of 
Corps Members’ allowance in the wake of approval of the new National 
Minimum Wage. His effort paid-off and the allowance of Corps 
Members was increased from Nineteen thousand, Eight hundred Naira 
(N19,800.00) to Thirty-three Thousand Naira (N33,000.00). Following 
the commencement of the payment of the new rate with effect from 
January 2020, the Director General along with the Honourable Minister 
of Youth and Sports Development and some representatives of Corps 
Members paid a “Thank-you” visit to His Excellency, the President and 
Commander-in-Chief, Armed Forces, Federal Republic of Nigeria, 
Muhammadu Buhari GCFR on 6th February, 2020 at the Presidential 
Villa, Abuja. 
 
Following improvement in the security situation in the country, the 
Director General sought for, and got approval from the Federal 
Government for a return to the earlier suspended ceremonial passing-
out of Corps Members. Accordingly, the Passing-Out Ceremony of the 
2019 Batch ‘A’ Corps Members was marked with colourful parades 
nationwide, thereby increasing the visibility of the NYSC.   
The successful conduct of Orientation courses is also another 
achievement of the Director General as he oversaw the successful 
conduct of the 2019 Batch ‘B’ Streams I and II, as well as 2019 Batch ‘C’ 
Streams I and II Orientation Courses. 
As a proactive measure, NYSC Management suspended the 2020 Batch 
‘A’ Stream 1 Orientation Course just a week into the exercise as a 
deliberate effort to avert the spread of COVID-19 in the Orientation 
Camps. The commendable action equally brought to the fore his 
concern for the health and general well-being of Corps Members and 
staff. 
In recognition of his efforts at curtailing the spread of COVID-19, 
Victims Support Funds (VSF), an organisation chaired by Lt Gen TY 
Danjuma donated 60,000 RDT test kits to the Scheme. The kits are used 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                             Bem J. Audu and M. Hamza  
300 
 
for the screening of prospective Corps Members and camp officials for 
COVID-19 in NYSC Orientation camps nationwide.  
In his quest to expand the administrative structure of the Scheme, the 
Director General ensured the smooth take - off of the NYSC Area Offices, 
whose approval had earlier been secured by the immediate past 
administration of Gen Kazaure, one in each of the six geo-political zones 
of the country, headed by a Director on salary grade level 17. This feat 
has opened up more vacancies, allowing for posting of other cadre of 
staff alongside the Directors to man the Offices. The Area Offices are 
located in Kaduna (North West), Niger (North Central), Bauchi (North 
East), Enugu (South East), Osun (South West) and Delta (South South) 
have since taken off and have in no mean way boosted staff morale and 
operations of the Scheme. 
 
In line with one of the cardinal points of his policy thrust, the Director 
General has been pursuing policies that are geared not only towards 
motivating staff, but also promoting industrial harmony in the Scheme. 
This has been aptly demonstrated through prompt payment of 
entitlements, capacity building programmes, as well as timely and 
transparent conduct of promotion examinations. During the 2020 
Promotion Exercise for instance, One Thousand Seven Hundred and 
Eighteen (1,718) out of the Two Thousand One Hundred Fifty-One 
(2,151) officers that participated in the event were elevated to the next 
grade level after meeting the requirements stipulated in the Public 
Service Rules and NYSC Conditions of Service. Additionally, the 2021 
Senior Staff Promotion Examination recorded a huge success. The 
impact of these promotion exercises has reinforced the commitment of 
staff to work for an enhanced performance. 
Meanwhile, as Management strives to enhance the motivation of staff, 
much premium is laid on the need to have a highly disciplined 
workforce. In this regard, officers who commit infractions are 
reprimanded in line with the provisions of the Public Service Rules 
(PSR). 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
301 
 
On strengthening the existing collaboration with critical stakeholders, 
on assumption of office, the Director General saw the dire need to 
sustain and strengthen the existing collaboration with critical 
stakeholders to garner more support and involve them in the 
management of the Scheme. He therefore embarked on advocacy visits 
to the stakeholders such as the former Head of State, General Yakubu 
Gowon, whose administration founded the Scheme. The Director-
General has had interface with the 36 State Governors, the Governor of 
the Central Bank of Nigeria, heads of Security and Anti-Corruption 
Agencies, Federal Road Safety Corps, among other stakeholders. The 
impact of this initiative is the improvement already being achieved in 
stakeholders’ support to the Scheme which is of great essence. 
The Director General also addressed a meeting of the Nigeria 
Governors’ Forum – the first of such engagement by any Chief 
Executive of the Scheme. He used the occasion of the meeting to 
appreciate the State Governors for their support to the Scheme, 
through various intervention projects in their respective States. He 
drew their attention to other areas that needed to be addressed, being 
part of the obligations of the State Governments to the Corps, as spelt 
out in the NYSC Act. 
Consequently the hosting of the meeting of NYSC top Management with 
the representatives of State Governments and the Federal Capital 
Territory Administration, a fallout of the meeting with the Governor's 
Forum is aimed at strengthening the collaboration with the Scheme, 
with a particular focus on the discharge of the statutory obligations of 
the States and FCT to the NYSC, as spelt out in its enabling Act. 
The impact of the meeting is profound, as several State Governments 
have made remarkable gestures in support of the Scheme. Prominent 
among them is the donation of two NYSC permanent Orientation camps 
by Edo and Anambra States, plans by the Lagos State Government to 
build a 14,000 -- capacity Orientation camp and the ongoing upgrading 
and rehabilitation of camp facilities in twenty five States, while the 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                             Bem J. Audu and M. Hamza  
302 
 
expansion of camp facilities has commenced in nine States to meet the 
5,000 -- Corps Member and 500 -- course official -- capacity camp. 
Other notable gains derived from the meeting include, constitution of 
functional NYSC State Governing Boards in seventeen States, with 
eighteen States enhancing the regular payment of state allowance to 
Corps Members, provision and upgrading of transit camps for Corps 
Members in thirty -- one states, provision of watertight security for 
Corps Members in all the States and the FCT, issuance of circulars by 
State Governments against the rejection of Corps Members, increased 
partnership with the Association of Local Governments of Nigeria 
(ALGON), provision of decent accommodation or payment of allowance 
in lieu of that to Corps Members and provision of office and residential 
accommodation by the States hosting the Headquarters of the Area 
Offices. 
In Promoting NYSC/Media relations, the Director General has since 
assumption of duty, strived to strengthen the cordial relations the 
Scheme enjoys with the Media. This, he kick-started with his maiden 
chat with Editors, Bureau Chiefs and Youth Correspondents of various 
Media Organisations in the country on 15th August, 2019. Brig Gen S 
Ibrahim also paid courtesy visits to Media offices in Abuja, including 
the Headquarters of the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA), News 
Agency of Nigeria (NAN), Media Trust Limited and Leadership Group 
Limited.  Similar visits with Director-General’s directive were also 
made to Lagos Head Offices of The Punch, Daily Sun, The Nation 
newspapers, among others. He has consistently maintained his Media-
friendly posture, thereby attracting wider publicity for the Scheme’s 
activities.  
To deepen and sustain the wide publicity that the Scheme has enjoyed, 
he has resuscitated the production and airing of the NYSC Half Hour 
programme on NTA International Channel 251 and Armed Forces 
Radio FM.  So far, plans have reached an advanced stage to establish the 
first ever NYSC FM Radio that will be useful to adequately drive the 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
303 
 
publicity efforts of the Scheme and showcase its activities to Nigerians 
and the entire world. 
The Director-General in furtherance of his transparent, inspirational 
and all-inclusive style of administration paid visits to some former 
Chief Executives of the Scheme. The gesture was aimed at appreciating 
their respective contributions to the development of Scheme when they 
were in the saddle of leadership, and also tap into their vast wealth of 
experience. The former Chief Executives appreciated the initiative as it 
was the first ever visit paid simultaneously to them. 
The maiden meeting with the Registrars of some Foreign Corps 
Producing Institutions was also held, having, uncovered the fraudulent 
activities of some tertiary institutions in Africa, especially in the West 
Africa sub region which have the penchant to issue questionable 
academic certificates to unqualified persons, who in turn present same 
to get mobilised for national service. The Director-General has 
commenced an aggressive fight against this menace which has earned 
him the commendation of the President, His Excellency Muhammadu 
Buhari GCFR, during his address at the 2018/2019 President's NYSC 
Honours Award Ceremony. Similar commendations were given to him 
by a broad spectrum of vice chancellors of some indigenous and foreign 
institutions, including the Honourable Minister of Education. 
In addition to hosting the meeting with the Registrars, internal 
mechanisms have been put in place for easier detection of unqualified 
persons attempting to present themselves for mobilisation for service.  
As a result of the stance of Management, some of the foreign 
institutions are now volunteering to alert NYSC of suspected fraudulent 
practices by their students. Interestingly, out of over twenty thousand 
(20,000) persons who registered online as foreign-trained prospective 
Corps Members of the 2019 Batch ‘C’ Service Year, only three thousand, 
four hundred and twenty (3,420) turned up for the pre-mobilisation 
physical screening of their credentials.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                             Bem J. Audu and M. Hamza  
304 
 
To serve as a deterrent to others, sixty-five (65) unqualified persons 
arrested during the 2019 Batch ‘B’ Stream II Orientation Course in 
camps across the country are being prosecuted with some convictions 
already secured. These steps taken by Management have helped to 
create national awareness, especially on the need for parents and 
guardians to check the accreditation status of the institutions attended 
by their wards, and also monitor their academic progress. 
The bold move by the Director General in sanitising the mobilisation 
process will also ensure that only well trained and competent persons 
occupy critical positions that will fast-track the development of the 
country.  
The Director-General has equally hosted a national sensitisation 
programme on the NYSC Act on 24th July, 2019 in Abuja. Prior to this, it 
was clear that many Nigerians were not aware of the provisions of the 
Act – a situation that has led to avoidable infractions. With the 
sensitisation, which is still on-going, organisations and individuals are 
now having better understanding of their obligations to the Scheme. In 
particular, cases of evasion and abscondment from Service, especially 
by the foreign-trained Nigerian graduates, are expected to reduce 
drastically.  
Broadly looking at the reinvigoration of the NYSC ventures and skill 
acquisition and entrepreneurship development programme in line with 
NYSC Act for greater impact, the Director General has been speaking 
passionately about his desire to make the Skill Acquisition and 
Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) Programme and NYSC 
Ventures Management Departments more functional. 
 
To match words with actions, he has taken several steps towards 
reinvigorating the SAED programme, including, but not limited to the 
following: 
• Renewal of commitment by the NYSC and Bank of Industry 
towards the resuscitation of empowerment of Corps 
entrepreneurs with business loans under the BOI-NYSC 
Graduate Empowerment Fund. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
305 
 
• Intensive monitoring of GEF beneficiaries. 
• New collaboration with NIRSAL Microfinance Bank on 
empowerment of Corps entrepreneurs. 
• New partnership with Unity Bank Plc on a programme named 
‘Allawee’ aimed at empowering Corps members.  
• Collaboration with British-American Tobacco Foundation on 
empowerment of Corps Members with agricultural skills and 
business trainings, farm internship, mentoring and farm input 
supplies. 
• Hosting of the 2020 NYSC SAED Stakeholders meeting aimed at 
reviewing the programme implementation strategies, as well as 
strengthening of existing partnerships and exploring new ones 
for further technical and material support. 
• Pursuing the completion of the North West Skill Acquisition 
Centre in Kazaure, Jigawa State, this is now at advanced stage. 
• Commencement of work on the North Central Skill Acquisition 
Centre in Keffi, Nasarawa State. 
• Research-based collaboration with OAU-NACETEM sponsored 
by a Canadian Agency, International Development Research 
Centre on evaluation of the impact of SAED and reinvigorating 
it for greater impact. 
• Resuscitation of NYSC Water Factory and Bakery at NYSC 
Orientation Camp Kubwa. The NYSC Water Factory and Bakery 
were revived and revitalised by the Director-General 
immediately he assumed office, and these two ventures are now 
producing at full capacity. The water and bread produced in 
these ventures are being supplied to the FCT, Nasarawa, Kogi, 
Kaduna and Niger State Orientation camps and the general 
public. These ventures now generate revenue to the Scheme 
and help Corps Members acquire skills too. 
• Purchase of modern farm equipment for the four NYSC 
functional farms namely, NYSC Farm Kwali in FCT, Saminaka, 
Kebbi State, Dungulbi, Bauchi State and Iseyin Oyo State. Each 
of these farms now has tractors and other basic farm 
equipment. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                             Bem J. Audu and M. Hamza  
306 
 
• The consistent support in terms of funding and staffing has 
increased the hectares under cultivation from 60 hectares to 
160 hectares during the 2020 farming season. 
• Reclaiming of NYSC farmland at Ezillo which hitherto was 
collected by the Ebonyi State Government. Immediately after 
the reclaiming, tractor was purchased for farming operations at 
the Ezillo Farm. 
• The structure of Ventures Management Department was 
expanded which gave room for the promotion of staff, and has 
in no mean way motivated the staff members. 
• Registration of the two NYSC Garment Factories, Water Factory 
and Bakery with the Corporate Affairs Commission. Arising 
from the last Meeting of the NYSC Top Management with 
Representatives of State Governments, the Governors of Edo 
and Ekiti States announced the donation of land for the sitting 
of two garment factories which will boost the production of 
Corps Members’ kit items. 
• Developing partnership with relevant institutions such as 
International Institute for Tropical Agriculture (IITA), National 
Agricultural Land Development Agency (NALDA), NCRI, NCAM, 
ARMTI, NCAC etc. to enhance the productivity of NYSC 
Farms/Ventures among others. 
• Resuscitation of moribund NYSC Feedmill, Lagos. The mill is 
now ready to start production of animal feeds. 
• Construction of new poultry pen at NYSC farm Kwali, FCT. 
• The Director General has met with the State Governors and 
other stakeholders with a view to securing land in all the States 
for agricultural production. 
 
In addition to the above, twelve States have opened up their skills 
centres for the post camp training of Corps Members to further 
strengthen the skills and entrepreneurship training acquired in camp. 
• The tremendous support given by the Director General has 
repositioned all the NYSC Ventures for greater revenue 
generation for the Scheme.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
307 
 
 
Interestingly, the Scheme paid into the national coffers over Two 
Hundred and Eighty Million Naira (N280,000,000.00) as internally 
generated revenue which is unprecedented in the annals of the Scheme. 
The Director General who has introduced the use of name tags by every 
member of staff for easy identification, equally in an unprecedented 
move sought the help of the Federal Government in tackling the 
ecological challenges confronting some of the NYSC Orientation camps. 
Government granted the request through the deployment of Ecological 
Fund to tackle the menace. Eight camps have been approved as 
beneficiaries in the first phase of the intervention. Already, work is 
ongoing in Cross River, Taraba, FCT and Nasarawa Orientation camps.  
 
In recognition of his service to the nation, Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim 
who has institutionalised Farewell Parade for outgoing NYSC Chief 
Executives - a novelty, has received numerous commendations and 
awards which include:  
• Chief of Army Staff Award as the Overall Best Participant for 
2013 NAEC Executive Management Course. 
• Nigerian Institute of Public Relations (NIPR) Special 
Recognition Award 2014. 
• Award for Distinguished Professional Contributions to Public 
Service/Fellowship (FCAI) by Institute of Corporate 
Administration. 
• Professional National Award (Historical Society of Nigeria HSN) 
and 
• Chief of Army Staff Commendation Letter 2018.  
 
Conclusion 
The above discourse has given an insight on the achievements of 
General Shuaibu Ibrahim since becoming the Director General of the 
National Youth Service Corps. Within the last two years, the Scheme has 
made some giant strides owing to the pursuit of strict implementation 
of the Director General’s five-point policy thrust. Therefore, the 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                             Bem J. Audu and M. Hamza  
308 
 
contributions of Brig Gen Ibrahim to the NYSC since his ascension into 
office cannot be overemphasised. These contributions are indeed 
remarkable, and will undoubtedly stand the test of time, having set the 
Scheme on growth trajectory and continuous relevance.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
309 
 
Bibliography 
 
A. J. Afolayan et al. Selected Speeches and Strides of the 18th NYSC 
Director General: Brigadier General S. Ibrahim, Abuja: NYSC 
National Directorate Headquarters, 2020. 
Achebe C. The Trouble with Nigeria, Enugu: Fourth Dimension 
Publishers, 1998. 
Appadorai A, The Substance of Politics, London: Oxford University 
Press, 2004. 
Audu B.J. “Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim and the Reinvigoration of NYSC,” 
in C.C.C. Osakwe et al (eds.) War, Society and Leadership in 
Nigeria: Essays in Honour of Brigadier General Shuaibu 
Ibrahim, Kaduna: Nigerian Defence Academy Press. 
Economic Confidential, NYSC: Rebranding for Revenue Generation, 
Youth Empowerment-Brig. Shuaib, D.G”, Vol. 13 (154), July, 
2020. 
Gen. Ibrahim attended NAEC (Nigerian Army Education Corps), Young 
Officers Course 1994; Infantry (INF) Young Officers Course 
1996; Training Development Advisers Course (TDA) 2004; and 
NAEC Officers’ Executive Management Course, 2013. Cited in 
The Nation, “NYSC: As a Patriot Assumes Duty”, February 19, 
2019.  
Klingborg D.J. “Leadership and Professional Development,” in Journal of 
Veterinary Medical Education, Davis: University of California, 
2006. 
Media Evaluation of Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim, 2020. 
NYSC National Directorate Headquarters, Selected Speeches and 
Strides of the 18th NYSC Director General, Compiled May 2020, 
by the Special Duties Department. 
NYSC News in A Journal of NYSC Directorate Headquarters, Abuja: 
NYSC Publication. 
NYSC. Media Assessment  
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND EDUCATION                             Bem J. Audu and M. Hamza  
310 
 
Sharma, M.K. and S. Jain. “Leadership Management: Principles, Models 
and Theories,” in Global Journal of Management and Business 
Studies. ISSBN 2248-9878 Volume 3, Number 3, 2013. 
 
Oral Interview 
 
Interviews with NYSC Coordinator   
Jibril Umar, Head of Ventures Kubwa, 50+, Interviewed at Kubwa 
Abuja, 15/3/21 
Emeka -- Rems Mgbemena, Deputy Director and Head, Publications 
Division, Press and Public Relations Unit, NYSC National 
Directorate Headquarters, Abuja, 50+, Interviewed at Abuja, 
15/3/21  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT