NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NATIONAL YOUTH 
SERVICE CORPS 
AND  
NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR 
    
 
 
 
 
  
Editors  
Shuaibu Ibrahim 
Patrick Ukase 
Bem Japhet Audu 
Maryam Hamza 
Rufai Aliyu 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

ii 
 
 
 
 
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS AND  
NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR  
 
 
Copyright (c) 2021 Shuaibu Ibrahim, Patrick Ukase, Bem Japhet Audu, 
Maryam Hamza, Rufai Aliyu 
 
 
 
All right reserved 
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 
stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any 
means electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, 
without prior permission of the author, who is the copyright owner. 
 
 
ISBN: 978-978-58821-3-1 
 
Note: Views and opinions expressed in the book are entirely those of 
the chapter contributors and not that of the Editors. 
 
 
Printed and Bound in Kaduna-Nigeria. 
Using environmental sustainable paper materials by 
Pyla-Mak Press and Publishers Limited 
Kaduna, Nigeria. 
+234(0)8023633763 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

iii 
 
 
NOTES ON CONTRIBUTORSNOTES ON CONTRIBUTORS NOTES ON CONTRIBUTORSNOTES ON CONTRIBUTORS    
    
Abu Leornard, is a lecturer with the Department of History and 
International Studies, Prince Abubakar Audu University, Anyigba, Kogi 
State. 
 
Abubakar Ishaq, is a postgraduate student of the Department of 
History and War Studies, Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. 
 
Abubakar Sule, is a lecturer in the Department of Economics, Prince 
Abubakar Audu University, Anyigba, Kogi State. 
 
Amos Ameh Ichaba,PhD is a lecturer in the Department of Philosophy, 
Prince Abubakar Audu University, Kogi State. 
 
Aondoahemen Edward Adamgbe, is of the Department of History, 
Benue State University, Benue State. 
 
Apeku Gabriel Aondofa Melvin, is of the Centre for the Study of 
Leadership and Complex Military Operations, Nigerian Defence 
Academy, Kaduna. 
 
Ayodele Christian, is of the Department of History and War Studies, 
Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. 
Bem Japhet Audu PhD, is a lecturer in the Department of History and 
War Studies, Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. 
 
Itodo, Unekwu Friday, is with the Department of History and 
International Studies, Prince Abubakar Audu University, Anyigba, Kogi 
State. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

iv 
 
 
Joel Abah, is a lecturer with the Department of History and 
International Studies, Prince Abubakar Audu University, Anyigba, Kogi 
State. 
 
Maryam Hamza PhD, is a lecturer in the Department of History and 
War Studies, Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. 
 
Ntagu, Miracle Promise, is a lecturer with the Department of Political 
Science and Defence Studies, Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. 
 
Orafa Stephen Tersoo, is of the Department of History, Benue State 
University, Makurdi. 
 
Rabiatu Ibrahim Abdullahi, is of the Department of History and War 
Studies, Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. 
 
Sunday Odikpa, is of the Department of History and International 
Studies, Prince Abubakar Audu University, Anyigba, Kogi State. 
 
Usman Abubakar Lamido, is a lecturer with the Department of 
History and War Studies, Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

v 
 
 
CONTENTSCONTENTS CONTENTSCONTENTS    
 
Contents - - - - - - -          v 
Preface - - - - - - -          viii 
Acknowledgment - - - - - -          x 
Introduction  - - - - - - -          xi 
 
1 History of Health Care Sector in Nigeria 
Sunny Odikpa  - - - - -          1 
 
2 Challenges of Health Sector in Nigeria 
Rabiatu Ibrahim Abdullahi - - - -          19 
 
3 NYSC Health and Hygiene CDS Group and National 
Development in Nigeria. 
Ntagu, Miracle Promise  - - - -          37 
 
4 NYSC and HIV/AIDS: An Assessment of NYSC  
Sensitisation Campaign against HIV/AIDS 
Ayodele Christian - - - - -          57 
 
5 NYSC and the HIV/AIDS Advocacy Programme,  
1986 – 2020 
Orafa Stephen Tersoo  - - - -          77 
 
6 NYSC, National Primary Health Care Development  
Agency and the Combat of the Ebola Virus Disease in 
Nigeria 
Amos Ameh Ichaba  - - - -          96 
 
7 National Youth Service Corps and the Fight Against  
Drug Abuse in Nigeria 
Abah, Joel - - - - - -          118 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

vi 
 
 
8 National Youth Service Corp Members in Medical and 
Health Care Service Delivery in Kogi State - Nigeria 
Sule, Abubakar  - - - - -          135 
 
9 The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the  
Nigeria Health Care Sector: An Assessment of the  
Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers (HIRD) in  
Irele Local Government Area of Ondo State 
Abu Leonard  - - - - -          160 
 
10 The NYSC and Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers 
Usman Abubakar Lamido - - - -          177 
 
11 An Analysis NYSC and Free Medical Care in Nigeria 
Itodo, Unekwu Friday - - - - -          192 
 
12 NYSC and Free Medical Health Care Delivery in  
Nigeria 
 Aondoahemen Edward Adamgbe - - -          208 
 
13 National Youth Service Corps and Collaboration  
with National Environmental Standards and  
Regulations Enforcement Agency 
Apeku Gabriel Aondofa Melvin  - - -          229 
 
14 The NYSC and Environmental Sanitation Advocacy 
in Nigeria 
Ayodele Christian - - - - -          255 
 
15 NYSC and Environmental Sanitation Advocacy in Nigeria:  
A Review of NYSC Environmental Protection and  
Sanitation CDS Group Activities in Anambra State 
Ntagu, Miracle Promise and  
Promise, Chinecherem Victory           - - -          275 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

vii 
 
16 NYSC and the Campaign For A Drug Free Society in 
Partnership with National Drugs Law Enforcement  
Agency (NDLEA) 
Abubakar Ishaq - - - - -           300 
 
17. Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: An Overview of  
His Achievements as 18th NYSC Director-General 
Bem Japhet Audu and Maryam Hamza  - - -          325 
 
Index - - - - - - - -          346 
 
 
 
 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

viii 
 
PREFACEPREFACE PREFACEPREFACE    
    
Since the attainment of independence in 1960, the medical sector has 
faced challenges of personnel, equipment and other issues. Central to 
the establishment of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) scheme 
in Nigeria was the determination to bridge the deficits in health 
workers in the rural areas and certain parts of the country. For 
instance, according to the National Manpower Board, as early as the 
1960s, about 40% of the country’s 57,000 high-level manpower 
(excluding teachers) were employed in Lagos. Similarly, about 70% of 
the nation’s medical and para-medical personnel were employed in few 
urban areas, especially within the university system and state capitals. 
This, left most of the rural areas without adequate medical and para-
medical personnel to cater for their needs. This continued until the 
NYSC was birthed.  
The birth of the NYSC in relative context, was to bridge the uneven 
distribution of medical personnel in the country. Studies have shown 
that unlike the first two decades of independence, the NYSC scheme 
through its posting policy, has to some extent, made medical personnel 
and services available to Nigerians in the rural and urban centres. In 
this connection, medical doctors, pharmacists and laboratory 
technologists have proven quite useful in the provision of Free Medical 
Health Care Delivery across the country. Apart from the graduates in 
the health sector, the NYSC scheme has also served as a platform for 
graduates outside the medical discipline to provide free advocacy 
services pertaining to such diseases as HIV/AIDS. Consistent with the 
schemes objectives of delivering health services to rural dwellers, the 
NYSC Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers (HIRD) was instituted in 
2014. Through the initiative, it was expected that the scheme would 
enhance accessibility to health care services in the core rural areas. In 
recent time, studies have not been carried out to ascertain the extent to 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

ix 
 
which the scheme has helped the health sector in the country, 
especially in the rural areas. 
It is against this problem that this project seeks to study the nexus 
between the NYSC scheme and the health sector in order to bridge the 
gap in knowledge about the contributions of the scheme to the health 
care delivery in Nigeria. The various chapter givers in this book have 
tried to interrogate the extent to which the NYSC scheme has supported 
the health sector in Nigeria since its inception in 1976, while also 
bringing to the fore areas that still requires strengthening. For instance, 
in spite of the remarkable contribution of the NYSC, to free medical 
health care delivery in Nigeria, insecurity, infrastructure deficit and 
illiteracy have remained a challenge against the role of the NYSC in this 
regard. 
This book is therefore a very important intervention, especially on 
discourses of health in Nigeria. Its strength lies in the searchlight the 
various chapter givers have beamed on the NYSC and its role in health 
care delivery in Nigeria in the last four decades. The issues examined in 
this book and some of the policy options provided, would go a long way 
in assisting policy makers, academics, students and several other 
International Development Agencies (IDA), who are interested in 
understanding the various ramifications of the interventions of the 
NYSC, especially in the health care sector to do so. This volume could 
also be a veritable instrument for addressing Nigeria’s heath care 
challenges through sectoral interventions. 
  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

x 
 
ACKNOWLEDACKNOWLED ACKNOWLEDACKNOWLEDGEMGEM GEMGEMENTSENTS ENTSENTS    
It is with profound gratitude that we acknowledge God Almighty, for 
without Him, this project would not have become a reality. We 
acknowledge with gratitude the chapter contributors for agreeing to 
write well-researched articles within a limited period. Their patience 
and perseverance in the course of this project is really commendable. 
We also thank our peer reviewers for their thought-provoking 
comments on the manuscripts. This helped tremendously in improving 
the quality of the chapters. Their patience through the peer review 
process is well acknowledged and commended.  
This project also benefitted immensely from some of the research 
institutions and libraries in and around Kaduna. Worthy of mention 
here are the Library of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), 
Yakubu Gowon House, Maitama, Abuja, Arewa House Kaduna and 
National Archives Kaduna. The staff and research fellows in these 
offices were very accommodating and helpful during the course of our 
research. 
Also, our profound appreciation goes to the Director-General of NYSC, 
Brigadier General (Assoc Prof) Shuaibu Ibrahim and his Staff who gave 
us unflinching support and ensured that this project is a huge success. 
Without the DG, the project would have suffered setbacks beyond 
measure. 
We acknowledge the support received from some of our dependable 
friends and colleagues. Most of them are Research Fellows of the Centre 
for the Study of Leadership and Complex Military Operations, 
(CSLCMO) Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. They are: Dr. Onah 
Peter Otumala, Jamiu Yusuf Danga, Mohammed Liman Murtala, 
Suleiman Bilal Ishaq, Jack Jeremiah, Alabi Ezekiel, Helen Noor, Blaise L. 
Archibong, Matthew Emmanuel, Abdullahi Isah, Suleiman Bashir 
Mohammed and Longe Ometere Esther. Thank you all. 
May God Bless us all. 
Shuaibu Ibrahim, Patrick Ukase, Bem Japhet Audu, Maryam 
Hamza, Rufai Aliyu.                               April, 2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

xi 
 
INTRODUCTIONINTRODUCTION INTRODUCTIONINTRODUCTION    
    
Brief History of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) 
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) was established in 1973 by 
the government of General Yakubu Gowon. The history of the scheme is 
traceable to the events that took place in Nigeria towards the last half 
of 1960s. The years 1967-1970 were characterized by the Nigerian civil 
war. At the end of the war, the General Gowon administration came up 
with new policies that would promote post-conflict peace, 
reconciliation, rehabilitation and reconstruction. Consequently, the 
vital need for national unity led to the birth of the NYSC idea. The NYSC 
Scheme came into being through Decree No. 24 of 22nd May 1973. It 
states that the NYSC is being established with a view to the proper 
encouragement and development of common ties among the youths of 
Nigeria and the promotion of national unity. After 20 years of existence, 
the 1973 Decree was repealed and replaced with No. 51 of 16th June, 
1993, now referred to as the National Youth Service Corps Act, Cap. 
N84, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004. The Act is preserved by 
Section 315 (5) (a) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of 
Nigeria, 1999 (as amended), thereby, making the NYSC Act part and 
parcel of the constitution. 
According to Section 1(3) of the NYSC Act, the objectives of the Scheme 
are to:  
“(a)  inculcate discipline in Nigerian youths by instilling in 
them a tradition of industry at work and of patriotic and 
loyal service to Nigeria in any situation they may find 
themselves; 
(b) raise the moral tone of the Nigerian youths by giving 
them the opportunity to learn about higher ideals of 
nation achievements, social and cultural improvement;  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

xii 
 
(c)  develop in Nigerian youths the attitudes of mind, 
acquired through shared experience and suitable 
training, which will make them more amenable to 
mobilization in the national interest;  
(d)  enable Nigerian youths acquire the spirit of self-reliance 
by encouraging them to develop skills for self-
employment;  
(e)  contribute to the accelerated growth of the national 
economy;  
(f)  develop common ties among the Nigerian youths and 
promote national unity and integration;  
(g) remove prejudices, eliminate ignorance and confirm at 
first hand the many similarities among Nigerians of all 
ethnic groups; and  
(h)  develop a sense of corporate existence and common 
destiny of the people of Nigeria.” 
In order to achieve the objectives stated above, Section 1(4) of the 
NYSC Act provides that the Scheme shall ensure: 
“(a)  the equitable distribution of members of the service 
corps and the effective utilization of their skills in area 
of national needs;  
(b)  that are far as possible, Nigerian youths are assigned to 
jobs in States other than their States of origin;  
(c)  that such group of Nigerian youths assigned to work 
together is as representative of Nigeria as far as 
possible; 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

xiii 
 
 (d)  that the Nigerian youths are exposed to the mode of 
living of the people in different parts of Nigeria. 
(e)  the Nigerian youths are encouraged to eschew religious 
intolerance by accommodating religious differences;  
(f) the members of the service corps are encouraged to 
seek a year for their one year national service, career 
employment all over Nigeria, thus promoting the free 
movement of labour; 
(g)  that employers are induced partly though their 
experience with members of the service corps to 
employ more readily and on a permanent basis, 
qualified Nigerians, irrespective of the States or origin.” 
Basically, the aims and objectives of the NYSC is to reinforce 
institutional efficiency and effectiveness as well as youth development 
in the country. It is accepted in several quarters that NYSC is a viable 
platform for the transitioning of youths into self-reliant adults and the 
improvement of general welfare and development. The NYSC 
programme has since inception facilitated steady and effective supply 
and distribution of skilled manpower, breaking of social and cultural 
barriers as well as the building of friendly bridges across ethno-
linguistic boundaries. It has also assisted in the promotion of values, 
national unity and development, rekindled interest in neglected but 
vital areas of national development and promoted leadership qualities 
in the youths. The Scheme has four (4) cardinal programmes which are: 
Mobilisation/Orientation, Primary Assignment, Community 
Development Service and Winding-Up/Passing- Out Exercise. 
The maximum age requirement for youths under the scheme is thirty 
(30) years old. They are also engaged in community development 
programmes and activities. According to Section 2(2) of the NYSC Act, 
the only groups of youth exempted are those that have served in the 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

xiv 
 
Armed forces or the Nigerian Police for a period of more than nine (9) 
months or in the security agencies, those over thirty (30) years of age 
and those conferred with National Honours. In addition, the choice of 
youths above every other age group was based on the fact that they are 
considered the most active change agents needed in building a united 
Nigeria, and a way of achieving this is for the youths to imbibe and 
nurture a sense of common belonging and national consciousness 
which would transcend political, social, state and ethnic loyalties. 
At the onset of the NYSC in 1973, only 2,346 graduates were mobilized. 
However, judging by the evolvement of the Scheme, there has been a 
phenomenal increase in the number of graduates that are participating 
annually. NYSC is capable of bringing out the best qualities in Nigerian 
youth and imparting in them the right attitude and value for nation 
building that serves as catalyst to national development, sense of pride 
and fulfillment of its participating graduate youths. The criteria 
observed in the deployment of Corps members include:   
• the equality of states,  
• ability of states to absorb the service of participants,  
• posting based on concessional considerations (marital and 
health grounds), posting on demand from various federal 
government establishments,  
• the supportive role of a government is also increasingly 
becoming a factor in the placement of corps members,  
• the deployment of corps members has retained its traditional 
process with the majority of corps members going to the 
classrooms. 
The Scheme’s presence is felt and noticed in all the LGAs in the country, 
creating higher emphasis in the rural and grass root development in 
line with its objectives since inception.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

History of Healthcare Sector in Nigeria 
1 
 
 11 11    
    History of Healthcare Sector in Nigeria 
 
 
Sunny Odikpa 
 
 
Introduction 
Nigeria’s health care sector has garnered much attention in terms 
policy formulation and implementation from pre-colonial to post 
independence time. In Nigeria’s pre-colonial period, traditional medical 
practice was the dominant system of health care delivery before any 
form of contact with the wider world1 . Although this system was 
largely under the control of the traditional medical practitioners such 
                                                           1Welcome. M. “The Nigerian Health Care System: Need for Integrating Adequate 
Medical Intelligence and Surveillance Systems”, in Journal of Pharmacy Bio-Allied 
Science, Vol.3, No.4, 2011, pp. 460- 470. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR          Sunny Odikpa 
2 
 
as herbalist, indigenous midwives, bone setters and other esoteric 
practices that existed, this indigenous medical system catered for the 
health related challenges of the various societies that constitute what is 
now known as Nigeria. The emergence of formal or organized health 
care services in Nigeria pre-dated several National and sub- national 
development plans, dating back the colonial period. However, the 
emergence of modern medical treatment in Nigeria, for instance, was 
traceable to the exploration of Mungo Park and Richard Lander which 
was seriously hampered by disease, and led to introduction of the use 
of quinine by Dr Baikie during the expedition of 18542. This treatment 
was not accessible to the indigenous people until the advent of various 
church missionaries that began to establish hospitals and dispensaries 
as part of their humanitarian services. This study aims to examine 
health care sector in Nigeria from the pre-colonial to post- 
independence era. 
 
Pre Colonial Health Care System in Nigeria  
In Nigerian communities, there existed men and women who were 
indigenous medicine practitioners. This group of people provided 
medication for people on daily basis. Indigenous medicine existed in 
African societies before their contact with Arab and Western 
civilization. Traditional medical practitioners were thus highly 
respected by their various communities because of their contribution 
to health care delivery of their society3  
In pre-colonial Nigeria, indigenous healers provided a high percent of 
primary health care services for the rural dwellers. Among Nigeria 
                                                           2Emuakpor. A. S. “The Evolution of Health Care Systems in Nigeria: Which Way 
Forward in the Twenty-First Century”, in Niger Medical Journal, Vol. 51 No.2, 
2010, pp. 53-65. 3Iyere .J. I. “The Relevance of Traditional Medicine in Contemporary Africa”, in 
Uma Journal of Philosophy and Religious Studies, Vol.1, No.1 and 2. 2008, pp. 50-
56. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

History of Healthcare Sector in Nigeria 
3 
 
medicine practitioners are herbalists, diviners, surgeons, bonesetters, 
dentists, ophthalmologists, gynecologists, psychiatrists, rainmakers and 
so on. These specialists have helped and are helping to provide the 
needed primary health care services to the people. Indigenous 
medicine practitioners are  known for effective treatment of the 
following ailments; malaria, typhoid fever, bone fracture, bullet proof 
talisman or charm, extraction of bullets from wounds, mystical poison, 
antidote for spiritual attacks, infertility, sexually transmitted diseases 
among others4 . 
Most medicine practitioners were dedicated to their profession; they 
gave much time and attention to their patients, by so doing, medicine 
practitioners were able to penetrate deep into the psychological state 
of their patients. The availability and accessible nature of indigenous 
medicine practitioners attracted many people to patronize them. The 
traditional concept of disease causation in most cultural areas in 
Nigeria incorporated beliefs in natural or God-given illness and in 
supernatural forces. These included witchcraft, spirit disturbance, the 
breach of a taboo, and failure to observe kinship rules or religious 
obligations5. 
This concept of the causes of illness influenced the mode of treatment 
applied. Diagnosis was based on one or more of several procedures, 
including: observation of the patient's attitude, gestures and ability to 
perform basic tasks as a test of logical reasoning; divination and 
possession, which may lead beyond diagnosis to prognosis and 
prescribed treatment; and case history, which may be intensive and 
cover a patient's family and social milieu. The sick had three chances: to 
                                                           4Asiegbu .M. A. “DibiaOgwu: An Indispensible Agent in the Search for Ultimate 
Reality and Purpose in Igbo World”, in Philosophy and African Medicine, Vol. 3, 
2006, pp. 25-32 5Ubrurhe.J. O. Urhobo Traditional Medicine. Ibadan. Spectrum Books Limited, 
2003, p. 26. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR          Sunny Odikpa 
4 
 
recover from illness, to remain ill or to die6. In any case, the healer was 
seen as a helping medium trying to intervene between the hidden 
forces and the patient. Some practitioners accepted payment in kind, 
often only after the outcome of the treatment was known. Often, the 
client could decide what to pay to the healer. It was possible for the 
payment to be postponed through mutual agreement until the 
following agricultural season or when fortunes improved. Payment 
could, take the form of a gift of a chicken or goat, foodstuffs or some 
assistance in the farm labour. The amount of payment varied with the 
severity of illness and time required for full recovery. In contemporary 
times traditional medicine still provides the only source of medical care 
in many rural areas owing to the scarcity and low accessibility of 
modem medical services. In such circumstances the rural population's 
use of traditional care will vary with the nature and gravity of the case, 
the type of specialist customarily sought, the acculturation of the client, 
the proximity of a preferred or reputable specialist and transportation7. 
On the whole, indigenous medical practice provided and still provides 
primary health care to the rural people even with the existence of 
modern health care services in Nigeria. 
 
Emergence of Modern Health Care Services in Nigeria 
Although the Arabs have had the distinction of early-organized medical 
services, there is no record of the introduction of such services to 
Nigeria despite the long period of interactions between some parts of 
present day northern Nigeria and the Arabs during the fifteenth 
century. The situation was essentially the same with respect to the 
trade relations between the southern parts of Nigeria and some 
European nations, especially the Portuguese and Great Britain during 
                                                           6Odimegwu . I. “Health as Cultural Phenomenon.”  Philosophy of and African 
Medicine.Vol ,3, 2006, pp 155-161.  7Patrick .I. “Knowledge of Herbal Resources and Development of Practitioners in 
Nigeria.”Philosophy of and African Medicine.  2006, pp 107-126. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

History of Healthcare Sector in Nigeria 
5 
 
the later part of the fifteenth century8. The first record of modern 
medical services in Nigeria was during the period of the various 
European expeditions in the early to mid-nineteenth century. The 
earlier explorations of Mungo Park and Richard Lander were seriously 
hampered by diseases which made Dr. Baikie introduce the use of 
quinine in the expedition of 1854, which greatly decreased mortality 
and morbidity among the explorers. It is still a subject of considerable 
debate whether the use of quinine by Dr. Baikie was his original 
discovery or whether he borrowed the idea from indigenous medical 
practitioner with whom he had interacted in the course of his 
expeditions. The use of quinine both as prophylaxis against and as 
therapy for malaria fever, expanded exploration and trade between 
Nigeria and European countries during the late nineteenth and early 
twentieth centuries9. 
However, this earliest form of Western health care in Nigeria which 
was provided by doctors brought by explorers and traders was to cater 
for their own well being, during this period, the services were not 
available to the indigenes of the various localities which they visited. 
However, it was the church missionaries that first established health 
care services that were accessible to the indigenous people. In view of 
this, the first health care facility was a dispensary opened in 1880 by 
the Church Missionary Society in Obosi, followed by others in Onitsha 
and Ibadan in 1886. However, the first hospital in Nigeria was the 
Sacred Heart Hospital in Abeokuta, built by the Roman Catholic Mission 
in 188510 . It should be stated that these missionary health care facilities 
were primarily used as tools for winning converts and expanding their 
                                                           8Asuzu .M. C. “The necessity for a health systems reform in Nigeria”, in Journal of 
Community Medicine & Primary Health Care. Vol.16, No. 1, 2004, pp. 1-3 9Schram .R.A History of Nigerian Health Care Services. Ibadan, Ibadan University 
Press, 1971, pp.42-45. 10Scott-Emuakpor .A. “The evolution of health care systems in Nigeria: Which way 
forward in the twenty-first century” , in Nigerian Medical Journal, Vol. 51, 2010, 
pp. 53-65 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR          Sunny Odikpa 
6 
 
followership, consequently, these facilities were competitive rather 
than complementary. 
 
Health Care Services during Colonial Era 
After the establishment of colonial rule in Nigeria, the British colonial 
administration did not show immediate interest in the health care 
sector not until the end of the World War II. It was after this period that 
the colonial state began to respond to the political and economic 
contradiction engendered by the growth of colonial capitalism and 
nationalism11 . One such response was the decision to extend modern 
health care to all Nigerians. Thus, the first attempt at health care sector 
reform was the Walter-Harkness Ten-Year Plan of 1946-1955 launched 
by the British administration. The Plan completely revolutionized the 
history of health services in Nigeria. The health programme proposed 
in the plan were progressive building of environmental hygiene; 
provision of adequate portable water for all; expansion of hospitals, 
maternity, child welfare and dispensary services and an intense 
campaign of preventive medicine at the grassroot level12. 
One landmark feature of the plan was the establishment of a Ministry of 
Health whose primary function was to coordinate health services 
throughout the country. It was during the Plan period that the 
University College Ibadan was founded with a Faculty of Medicine and 
Teaching Hospital – the University College Hospital (UCH). UCH was the 
first quality tertiary and higher health care manpower training 
institution in the country. However, the Plan was criticized for paying 
                                                           11Ityavya.D.  Background to the Development of Health Services in Nigeria. Social 
Science Medicine, vol. 24, 1987 
no.6, pp. 487-499. 12Federal Government of Nigeria. Second National Development Plan 1970-1974: 
Program of Post-War  
Reconstruction and Development. Lagos: Federal Government Press. 1970. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

History of Healthcare Sector in Nigeria 
7 
 
little attention to preventive and primary care13 . It accorded more 
importance to curative medicine. This was not surprising as preventive 
medicine then was opposed to the ideology of Western modern 
medicine that emphasized cure - in which the planning of health 
services was seen to be synonymous with building of hospitals, 
dispensaries or medical schools. The neglect of preventive medicine in 
the Plan was evident as nothing was specifically budgeted for 
immunization, sanitation, health education among others. The 1946 
health reform reveals even more limitations. It disregarded the politics 
of revenue allocation and was completely insensitive to the distinct 
regional and ethnic groups of Nigeria  
Furthermore, other hospitals were built initially as small isolation 
facilities for epidemic febrile conditions, and later expanded to include 
general beds. A number of hospitals were also built between 1900 and 
1933 in urban and semi urban areas in the northern part of the 
country. These include those at Lokoja, Idah, Kaduna, Zungeru, Ilorin, 
Ibi and Offa14 . It was only after the 1950s that some rural areas began 
to have dispensaries within a radius of 100 miles.  The combined 
activities of the Christian missions and the British colonial government 
in Nigeria led to a rapid rise in the number of hospitals in Nigeria after 
the First World War. Furthermore, the beginning of the First World 
War (1914-1918) coincided with the amalgamation of the Northern 
and Southern regions. This war produced a lot of military activities in 
Nigeria, leading to the establishment of several military health care 
facilities, some of which were left to function as civilian hospitals after 
the war. In 1930 there were 71 hospitals in Nigeria; of these, 47 were 
                                                           13Federation of Nigeria. National Development Plan, 1962-1968. Lagos: Federal 
Ministry of Economic  
Development. 1962. 14.Schram .R. A, A History of Nigeria Health Care Services. Ibadan, University Press, 
1917, pp 61-68. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR          Sunny Odikpa 
8 
 
established by the government, while 23 were owned by Christian 
missions. The remaining one was privately owned. By 1945 the number 
of hospitals in the country had risen to 116. The Christian missions 
established 46 while the government owned 69 and only one had been 
privately established15 . 
 
The Dynamics of Health Care Services in Post-Colonial Nigeria 
Between 1952 and 1954, the control of medical services was 
transferred to the Regional governments, as was the control of other 
services. Consequently, each of the three regions (eastern, western and 
northern) set up regional Ministries of Health, in addition to the 
Federal Ministry of Health. Although the Federal Government was 
responsible for most of the health budget of the regions, the regional 
governments were free to allocate the health care budget as they 
deemed fit. Over the years of development planning in Nigeria, health 
care services have been characterized by short term planning as 
reflected in the various national development plans between 1945 and 
2008. The first remarkable national policy statement on health care 
services delivery in Nigeria was in 1954 as reflected in the then Eastern 
Nigeria Government report titled “Policy for Medical and Health 
Services”. This report stated that the aim of health care was to provide 
national health services for all irrespective of the location or place of 
residence. The report emphasized that “since urban services were well 
developed, the government intended to expand rural service. These 
rural services would be in the form of rural hospitals of 20- 24 beds, 
supervised by a medical officer, who would also supervise dispensaries, 
maternal and child welfare clinics as well as preventive work. The 
policy made native authorities contribute to the cost of developing and 
maintaining such rural services, with grants-in-aid from the regional 
                                                           15Fendall .N. R. E., “A History of the Yaba School of Medicine, Nigeria”, in West 
African Medical Journal,  1967, Vol.16, p.118.  
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

History of Healthcare Sector in Nigeria 
9 
 
government. The policy document was extensive and detailed in its 
description of the services envisaged. This was therefore the major 
health policy statement in Nigeria before and during Independence. 
After independence in 1960, the same basic health care policy was 
pursued. By the time the Third National Development Plan was 
produced in 1975, more than 20 years after the report mentioned 
above was articulated, not much had been done to achieve the goals of 
the Nationwide Health Care Services policy. The Third National 
Development Plan, which was described by General Yakubu Gowon, the 
then Head of the Military Government, as "A Monument to Progress", 
stated, "Development trends in the health sector have not been marked 
by any spectacular achievement during the past decade". This 
development plan appeared to have focused attention on trying to 
improve the numerical strength of existing facilities rather than 
evolving a clear health care policy16 . 
The Fourth National Development Plan (1981- 1985) addressed the 
issue of preventive health services for the first time. The policy 
statement contained in this plan called for the implementation of the 
Basic Health Services Scheme (BHSS), which provides for the 
establishment of three levels of health care facilities; namely: 1) 
Comprehensive Health Centers (CHC) to serve communities of more 
than 20, 000 people; 2) Primary Health Centers (PHC) to serve 
communities of 5000 to 20, 000 persons; and 3) Health Clinics (HC) to 
serve 2000 to 5000 persons. Thus, a CHC would have at least 1 PHC in 
its catchment area (ideally 4) and a PHC would have at least 1 HC in its 
catchment area. These facilities were to be built and operated by state 
and local governments with financial aid from the federal government. 
By this policy, the provision of health services would be the joint 
responsibility of the federal, state and local governments. In its outlook, 
                                                           16Attah.E. B. “Health and Nigeria’s third development plan”, in Journal of the 
National Medical Association, Vol. 68, 1976, pp. 256–257. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR          Sunny Odikpa 
10 
 
this policy is not different from the one published in 1954 by the 
Eastern Nigerian Government previously mentioned.  
On the last day of 1983, a new Military Government came into being in 
Nigeria and one of the reasons it gave for the Military intervention was 
the state of health services, declaring "our teaching hospitals have been 
reduced to mere consulting clinics". One of the government's first 
efforts was to revise the Fourth National Development Plan. The health 
strategy under this revised plan gradually shifted emphasis to primary 
health care. Although this has always been the ultimate goal of the plan, 
the political will did not seem to exist for its implementation17. 
Closely associated with the emergence of a centralized health care 
system in Nigeria was the training of indigenous health manpower. The 
need for manpower training and for the development of indigenous 
skills in health care services was recognized quite early, first by the 
missionaries and later by the colonial government. The main reason for 
this was the fact that the missionary physicians, as is true for other 
missionaries, had a high rate of morbidity and mortality among their 
ranks resulting from the inclement weather and previously unfamiliar 
tropical diseases18 . Since health care services had become a major part 
of evangelism, it became obvious that Nigerians needed to be trained in 
all aspects of evangelical work, including health care delivery, in order 
to expand the missionary activities to the hinterland. The nearest place 
where this training was available was Britain. 
Several Africans were thus sponsored by missionary agencies to study 
in Britain. The first was John Macaulay Wilson, a Sierra Leonean, who 
                                                           17Wunsch.J. (et al), USAID Governance Initiatives in Nigeria: A Strategic 
Assessment of Primary Health Care and Local Government. USAID, Lagos, 1994, 
p.46. 18Ransome-Kuti.O. (et al), (Ed.), Strengthening Primary Health Care at Local 
Government Level.the Nigerian Experience, Lagos, Academy Press Ltd,1991, pp.72-
80. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

History of Healthcare Sector in Nigeria 
11 
 
became the first native African to become a physician. The first two 
Nigerian physicians were James Africanus Beal-Horton and William 
Broughton Davis, and they were similarly trained in Britain. World War 
I brought the need for indigenous trained health care personnel home 
to the Colonial Government, which had hitherto mostly excluded 
Nigerian physicians from government medical services19 . The war led 
to the deployment of physicians and other health care workers in the 
army and there was an acute shortage of health personnel. This led to 
the establishment in 1939 of the first medical school in Nigeria, the 
Yaba Medical College. At first, it trained medical assistants, but was 
later upgraded to train assistant medical officers. By special 
arrangement between the Colonial Office and the Royal College of 
Surgeons and Physicians of Great Britain, most of the assistant medical 
officers were granted Licentiate Diplomas, after a short exposure in 
Britain. Because the Yaba College trained only half doctors, it became 
quite unpopular with the emergence of political activism among 
Nigerians20. It eventually disappeared with the establishment of the 
University College, Ibadan.  
Although the Yaba College was closed due to its unpopularity, another 
school for training incomplete doctors evolved in Kano in 1955. This 
was also short-lived and its graduates were mostly converted to full-
fledged doctors by a political declaration. Medical training in Nigeria's 
premier university, University College, Ibadan, was fashioned after the 
British system as would be expected. The pre-clinical work was done in 
Ibadan, the clinical work was done in Teaching Hospitals in England, 
and the degrees awarded were London University degrees21. By 1957, 
                                                           19Akinsola .H.  A.  Community Health and Social Medicine in Medical and Nursing 
Practice, Ibadan, AM. Communications, 1993, p.49. 20Ransome-Kuti.O. “Finding the Right Road to Health”, in World Health Forum, Vol. 
8, 1987, pp.161-163 21Scott-Emuakpor.A.“The evolution of health care systems in Nigeria: Which way 
forward in the twenty-first century” , in Nigerian Medical Journal, Vol. 51, 2010, 
pp. 53-65 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR          Sunny Odikpa 
12 
 
all aspects of the training were done in Ibadan, but the degrees were 
still those of London University, whose officials conducted the 
examinations in Ibadan. It was not until 1967 that the University of 
Ibadan granted its own degrees. By this time, the University of Lagos 
had also started awarding its own medical degrees. 
This was followed in quick succession by Ahmadu Bello University, 
University of Ife (now Obafemi Awolowo University), and the 
University of Benin. Other institutions followed, including the 
University of Nigeria Nsukka, the University of Ilorin, the University of 
Calabar, the University of Port Harcourt, the University of Maiduguri, 
the University of Jos, and the University of Sokoto. The training of other 
health care professionals followed the same developmental process as 
that described for doctors with the early ones being trained in England, 
until the development of local schools22. The training of nurses in 
Nigeria started after the establishment of the Nursing Council of 
Nigeria. The Preliminary Training School (PTS) for nurses, which was 
based in Lagos, was transferred to Ibadan as one of three (3) such 
schools in the country. The others were in Kano and Aba. Whereas the 
two (2) schools in the South (Ibadan and Aba) had only a 6-month 
programme, the one in North (Kano) had two (2) courses, one of them 
admitted students with lesser qualifications and the programme lasted 
for one (1) year, while the other programme of 6 months duration was 
for students with a higher entry qualification. By 1954, 23 (all men) 
graduated from the Kano School, 40 (16 women and 24 men) 
graduated from the Aba School and 71 (42 women and 29 men) 
graduated from the Ibadan School. As was the case with doctors, there 
was displeasure expressed over the incomplete training of nurses who 
received local training. This subsequently led to the establishment of 3-
                                                           22 Fendall.N. R. E. “A History of the Yaba School of Medicine, Nigeria”, in West 
African Medical Journal,  1967, Vol.16, p.118.  
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

History of Healthcare Sector in Nigeria 
13 
 
year nursing schools at designated government hospitals, seven (7) in 
the North, six (6) in the East and eight (8) in the West23. 
In addition, the Nursing Council granted recognition to 17 missionary 
built programmes for training of full-fledged nurses. By 1955, there 
were 100 female student nurses at the University College Hospital in 
Ibadan receiving British-type State Registered Nurses (SRN) training. 
There were two (2) cadres of midwifery schools in Nigeria. One trained 
Grade I Midwives and the other trained Grade II Midwives, the latter 
being a lower standard of entry qualifications and training. Grade I 
Midwives were trained in designated government centers and by 1954, 
12 women had graduated from the Northern School in Kaduna, 23 from 
the Eastern School in Aba, 10 women from the other Eastern school in 
Calabar, and 20 women from both Massey Street, Lagos and Ade-Oyo 
Hospital, Ibadan in the West. Grade II midwives were trained in 
missionary hospitals or Native Authority facilities24.  
These individuals worked mostly in rural areas and in 1954, five (5) 
were trained in the North, 21 in the East and 103 in the West. Public 
Health Attendants (known as Sanitary Inspectors) were trained in four 
(4) schools of hygiene across the country. One school, operated by the 
Lagos Town Council Public Health Department, graduated four (4) by 
1954, while those operated by the government in Kano, Aba and Ibadan 
graduated a total of 128. The only schools for training Dispensary 
Attendants were in the North (Kano and Zaria). They became the 
centers for training Dispensary Attendants for the whole country, until 
the establishment of a similar training facility at the University College 
Hospital, Ibadan in 1957. The Field Unit School at Makurdi began 
training of Sleeping Sickness Assistants in 1933 and later trained 
                                                           23Onokerhoraye.A. G.   Health and Family Planning Services in Nigeria.Benin City, 
Benin Social Sciences Series, 1997, pp.23-26. 24Uneke.C. J. “Development of Health Policy and Systems Research in Nigeria: 
Lessons for Developing Countries”, in Health Polic.Vol.6 No. 1, 2010. pp. 109-26. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR          Sunny Odikpa 
14 
 
Medical Field Unit Assistants for the entire country25. At the Oji River 
Settlement in the East, a 6-month course was established for training 
Leprosy Inspectors and Attendants. By 1954, four (4) Leprosy 
Inspectors and 21 Attendants had been trained. Pharmacists were 
trained in the defunct Yaba Medical College site, and by 1954, 31 had 
graduated. 
The dispensers, trained at Zaria and Kano, were subsequently licensed 
to practice in Northern Nigeria only. The only places where trained 
laboratory technicians were was Lagos and Kano Hospitals, however, 
by 1954, 29 had graduated from Lagos and 2 from Kano. At the same 
time, three (3) Dental Technical Assistants were trained in Lagos 
Hospital. The only school for Radiography was in Lagos and it trained 
x-ray assistants for the whole country. By 1957, a total of 10 had 
graduated from this school, five (5) from the West, three (3) from the 
East and two (2) from the North)26. The Orthopedic Hospital in Igbobi, 
Lagos, and trained six (6) Assistant Physiotherapists by 1957. This 
represented the training situation for personnel of the various aspects 
of health care services just before and around independence in 1960. 
After independence, the improvements were modest for the next 10 
years, when judged against the background of population growth. For 
example, whereas there were 1354 physicians and 58 dentists in 1962, 
the corresponding figures for physicians and dentists in 1972 were 
3112 and 124 respectively. However, the population growth from 
                                                           25Welcome .M. O. “The Nigerian health care system: need for integrating 
adequate medical intelligence and surveillance systems”, in Journal of Pham Bio-
Allied Science, Vol. 3, No.4, 2011, pp.470-478. 26Scott-Emuakpor. A.“The evolution of health care systems in Nigeria: Which way 
forward in the twenty-first century” , in Nigerian Medical Journal, Vol. 51, 2010, 
pp. 53-65 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

History of Healthcare Sector in Nigeria 
15 
 
54,000,000 in 1962 to 68,000,000 in 1972 makes the numerical 
improvement less meaningful27. 
 
National Primary Health Care Delivery System in Nigeria  
Globally, the place of health in the development of any nation is 
important. Undoubtedly; the significance of health to national life has 
made successive governments in Nigeria to design or formulate certain 
fundamental policies in order to regulate, control and guide the 
operations of health care services28. In Nigeria, from pre-colonial to 
post-colonial era, various policies have been put in place in order to 
improve the health care sector. Some of these policies include Western 
and Traditional Health Care integration, Basic Health Social Scheme, 
Primary Health Care scheme, the National Health Insurance Scheme, 
National Action Committee on Aids among others29. 
These policies were put in place with certain objectives. Some of these 
objectives are; to ensure that every Nigerian has access to good health 
care services; to ensure equitable distribution of health care facilities 
within the federation and at all levels of government; to maintain high 
standards of health care delivery; to limit the rise in the cost of health 
care services; to improve and harness private sector participation in 
the provision of health care services, and to ensure that all health care 
providers conform to laid down rules and regulations guiding health 
                                                           27Schram R.A History of Nigerian Health Care Services. Ibadan, Ibadan University 
Press, 1971, pp.42-45. 28Metiboba. S. “Primary Health Care Services for Effective Health Care 
Development in Nigeria: A Study of Selected Rual Communities”, in Journal of 
Research in National Development, Vol.7, No. 2. 2009, pp. 100-103. 29Magnussen. L. “Comprehensive versus selective primary health care: Lessons for 
global health policy”, in Health Affairs, Vol. 23, No.3, 2004, pp.167-176.  
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR          Sunny Odikpa 
16 
 
care operation in Nigeria. However, the implementation of these 
policies is often bedevilled with challenges30 . 
 In 1985, the Federal Government embarked upon a readjustment of 
the existing national health policy. It commissioned a Committee to 
develop an official health policy for the whole nation under the 
headship of a renowned international expert on public health, 
Professor A.O. Lucas.  In view of the above, after thorough 
consideration, the Committee recommended the establishment of 
Primary Health Care delivery as the key to Nigeria’s health care 
services31 . The recommendation was based on the global interest in the 
Alma-Ata declaration and on the vision of the Second National Health 
Care Development Plan. The national health Policy declaration of the 
Federal Republic of Nigeria was for the country to attain a level of 
health for all citizens by the year 2000 through the implementation of 
Primary Health Care32. The objectives of PHC are as follows; To 
increase coverage of health services, extending such services to the 
gross-roots, especially to rural communities and the urban poor who 
are not well served; To change the orientation of health services with 
more attention on preventive than curative components; To improve 
efficiency of services and coordination of health care delivery at 
different levels of government; To involve communities in the health 
                                                           30Fajewonyomi. B. A.  and Jinadu. M. K. “Strategies for the Delivery of Primary 
Health Care of the Local Government Level”, in The Nigerian Journal of Local 
Government Studies, Vol. 4, No. 1, 1990,  pp.24 – 30  31Abdulraheem .I. and Olapipo . A. R (et al), “Primary health care services in 
Nigeria: Critical issues and strategies for enhancing the use by the rural 
communities”, in Journal of Public Health and Epidemiology, Vol.4, 2012, pp.5–13. 32Cueto .M. “The Origins of Primary Health Care and the Selective Primary Health 
(http://www.unxi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1448553).Accessed 06/07/2018.  
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

History of Healthcare Sector in Nigeria 
17 
 
decision making process and to reduce to the barest minimum other 
broad range defects in the nation’s health system33 . 
Be that as it may, it is important to note that the report of Professor 
A.O. Lucas Committee did not receive any attention until 1987 when 
the Federal Executive Council was convinced by  Professor Olukoye 
Ransome-Kuti, the then Minister of Health to implement 
recommendations of the Committee. In view of this, in 1988, Professor 
O.R. Kuti adopted Primary Health Care Delivery in 52 local government 
areas across the country as pilot project based on the Alma-Ata 
Declaration of 197834 . This also led to the establishment of National 
Primary Health Care Development Agency in 1992 which was to serve 
as a vehicle for developing and supervising the Primary Health Care 
delivery nationwide. Furthermore, the policy established a three tier 
system of health care namely; Primary Health Care, Secondary Health 
Care and Tertiary Health Care, which were to be the responsibilities of 
local governments, state governments and federal government 
respectively. The implication of the division was to ensure that every 
category of people in Nigeria was cared for health wise. In view of the 
above, the health needs of the people of the grassroots are to be 
addressed at the primary health care centre. The provision of health 
care at this level was largely the responsibility of local governments. 
 
 
 
 
                                                           33Adeyemo.D. O. “Local government and health care delivery in Nigeria”, in 
Journal of Human Ecology, Vol.18, 2005, pp.149–160. 34Bhatia .M. &Rifkin .S. “A renewed focus on primary healthcare: Revitalize or 
Reframe”? Globalization and Health, Vol. 6, No.13.2010, pp.6-1. 34AregbesholaB. S. andKhan .S. M.“Primary Health Care in Nigeria; 24 Years after 
OlikoyeRansome-Kuti Leadership”, in Front Public Health, Vol. 5, No.45. pp.3-9. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR          Sunny Odikpa 
18 
 
Conclusion 
Thus far, attempt has been made by this study to historicize modern 
health care services from pre-colonial to post-independent era. This 
research submits that the emergence of modern health care services 
and its proliferation in Nigeria is traceable to European explorers and 
Christian Missionaries in the country at the early stage. However, the 
post independent governments have also made effort to initiate various 
reforms in the health care sector over the years. It is pertinent to say 
that from Colonial to Post- Colonial periods in Nigeria, health care 
delivery has undergone series of policy formulation and 
implementation which are all aimed at achieving national health care 
for all. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Challenges of Health Sector in Nigeria 
19 
 
 22 22    
    Challenges of Health Sector in Nigeria 
 
 
Rabiatu Ibrahim Abdullahi 
 
 
Introduction  
According to a study by UNDP, less that 49% of rural dwellers in 
Nigeria barely have access to clean water and also sanitisation as 
compared to 72% of the population in the urban areas who have no 
problem of accessing clean water and sanitation. 1  The reason for that 
can be because of the inability of the government to provide basic 
social amenities like health infrastructures in the rural areas. For 
instance, in the North western region of Nigeria where you find that 
                                                           1 United Nations Population Division (2010) State of World Population 2010: 
Unleashing the Potential of Urban Growth. New York: UNPD. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                          R. I. Abdullahi 
20 
 
there is always huge droughts and most of the population as much as 
90% cannot access clean water. Furthermore, in the southern region of 
the country where there is frequent exploration of oil as an antecedent 
there has been frequent reports whereby there is water pollution as a 
result of frequent oil spills which in turn definitely play against the 
possibility of getting access to clean water.2 
This is further worsened with the large growth rate in the country 
annually, the population of the country has been on a constant growth 
rate with a population growth rate of 2.83% and an extremely high 
crude birth rate of 40.20 births/ 1000 people as against the global 
average of 20.18 births/1000 people, Nigeria is faced with risks of 
limited health resources to cater for the growing population.3 
More so, the World Health Organisation has proved this to be one of the 
major threats to achieving access to health in the country. More so, the 
country is in a poor state as per the percentage of people living on less 
that one dollar per day. The WHO report shows that approximately 
80% of the population lives on less than US$1 per day.4 
Thus, suggesting the impact of socio-economic status on the health of 
the population. However, the country’s total per capita expenditure on 
health of US$50 is amongst the lowest globally, with 80% of health 
expenditure from household out-of-pocket expenses compounding the 
poverty level in the country.5  Despite the country’s large national 
resources from oil and gas, the country holds a GDP of only US$2070, 
lower than the regional average of US$2561 and a global average of 
                                                           2 World health Organisation (2010) Core Indicators of Health in Nigeria. Geneva: 
WHO. 3 Population Reference Bureau (2010) World Population Data Sheet [online]. 
Available from: 
http://www.prb.org/Publications/Datasheets/2010/2010WorldPopulationD. 4World Health Organisation (2011) World Health Statistics. Geneva: WHO. 5 Federal Ministry of Health (2009) National  Health  Management  Information 
Systems. Abuja: FMOH. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Challenges of Health Sector in Nigeria 
21 
 
US$10599.6 Thus, reflecting on a low percentage of the budget 
allocation of only 3.5% of the GDP to health (World Bank, 2010). This 
can be argued to be responsible for the poor distribution of health 
infrastructures across the country, thereby predicting key health 
indicators in the country. 
The deterioration of key national health indicators have been a result of 
over three decades of economic crisis and political instability in the 
country. The country fares worse in most of the key health indicators 
compared to similar sub-Saharan African countries. For example, the 
under-5years mortality of 138 per 1000 live births is one of the highest 
globally as compared to 127 per 1000 live births in other sub-Saharan 
countries and a global average of 60 per 1000 live births (National 
Health and Development Survey (NHDS), 2006). This high rate in 
Nigeria might be attributed to a low immunization rate of 41% in 1-
year- olds compared to the regional average of 69% (WHO, 2010). Lack 
of immunization to diseases such as measles and polio is the leading 
cause of death in Africa. Similarly, the country holds one of the largest 
maternal mortality ratios of 840 per 100,000 live births as compared to 
a regional ratio of620/100,000 live births and a global average of 
260/100,000 live births. This can be argued to be attributed to the low 
rate of antenatal care visits of 45% and a proportion of only 39% of 
births being attended to by skilled health personnel (WHO, 2010).  
However, there are large disparities in healthcare accessibility amongst 
different population groups in the country. For example, only 26% of 
women in rural areas in North-central Nigeria deliver with the help of a 
skilled health personnel as compared to 59% of women in urban areas 
in South-western states. One can argue the influence of traditional 
beliefs  and  lack  of  accessibility  to  health  facilities  either  due  to 
                                                           6World Health Organisation (2011) World Health Statistics. Geneva: WHO. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                          R. I. Abdullahi 
22 
 
unavailability or transportation, to be responsible for the low 
percentage ratio in rural areas.7 
Elsewhere, the rising burden of HIV/AIDS in the country is straining 
the already weak health system. An estimated 3.2% of the population, 
summing up to approximately 2.6 million people, lives with HIV/AIDS 
in Nigeria. The HIV prevalence in Nigeria is 36 per 1000 adults (15-49 
years) as compared with a global average of 8/1000 adults. Although 
the prevalence is relatively higher in other sub- Saharan countries with 
a rate of 47/1000 adults, one can attribute the high rate of HIV/AIDS in 
Nigeria to the low rate of contraceptive prevalence of only 15%. It is 
argued that the country’s adult literacy rate of 71% might be 
responsible for the low uptake of contraceptives. However, it should be 
noted that there are large disparities across different population 
groups in the country. To illustrate, in a survey conducted by the 
UNAIDS in 2010, over 80% of adults (15-49 years) living in the rural 
areas lack the basic knowledge on how to prevent themselves from HIV 
and other sexual transmitted diseases, in contrast to only 13% of urban 
dwellers.8 Furthermore, the incidence of all cases of tuberculosis in 
Nigeria is 497/100,000 as compared to a regional average of 
475/100,000 and a global average of 8/100,000. This can be attributed 
to the high prevalence of tuberculosis in HIV infected people.  
Nevertheless, the country has achieved a 78% success rate in smear-
positive tuberculosis treatments just below the regional average of 
80%. All these puts the adult mortality rate in Nigeria to 370/1000 
adults (15-49 years) as compared to the global average of 176/1000 
                                                           7 National Health and Development Survey Nigeria Health Indicators. 2006 
http://www.census.gov.ph/ncr/ncrweb/ncr_ndhs/index_NDHS.htm. [Acces 8 Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) AIDS Epidemic Update 
2010. Geneva: UNAIDS, 2010 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Challenges of Health Sector in Nigeria 
23 
 
adults. This therefore accounts for the relatively low life expectancy of 
54 years in Nigeria in contrast to an average of 68 years globally.9 
Thus, the current priorities in the Nigerian health sector is aimed at 
reducing maternal mortality, reducing the disease burden from 
HIV/AIDS, improving infants survival with emphasis on immunization, 
control of tuberculosis and malaria, and increasing the participation of 
the private sector in delivery of health services.10 
 
A Synopsis on the Apparatuses of the Nigerian Health System 
Health Governance/ Regulation 
The established order of responsibilities are approved by the Federal 
Ministry of Health in Nigeria which is actually architected across the 
three tiers of government. health is on the concurrent legislative list, 
allowing the local, state and federal government to assume overlapping 
roles in terms of provision, regulation and designs of policy. 
Nevertheless, the constitution fails to provide specific divisions of 
responsibilities and roles of each tier of government, leading to 
ambiguity in the administration and management of health at each 
level.11  Critics have queried the lack of autonomous of the local 
government over the primary healthcare, as it is largely controlled by 
guidance from the state and federal department of primary 
healthcare.12  This lack of autonomy might be attributed to the heavy 
financial dependence on the state and federal government allocation of 
funds. This argument explains the low Human Resources for Health 
(HRH) as discussed later in this section. Furthermore, with 75% of the 
private health sector delivering care at the primary care level, the local 
government has little or no control over them. Although licenses are 
                                                           9Federal Ministry of Health. National Health Management Information Systems. 
Abuja: FMOH, 2009. 10Federal Ministry of Health. National Health Management Information Systems 11Federal Ministry of Health. National Health Management Information Systems 12Federal Ministry of Health Health Manpower Situation Analysis. Abuja: FMOH, 
2011. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                          R. I. Abdullahi 
24 
 
issued by the state ministry of health (SMOH) to ensure private health 
providers comply with regulations, there are limited enforcement 
activities to monitor the quality of health services delivered 
(Demographic and Health Survey Report).13  Thus, leaving a greater 
proportion of the private health sector unregulated. Demographically, 
with 60% of the country’s population predominantly living in rural 
settlements, weaknesses of checks and balances within the private 
health sector puts majority of the population at risk, who patronizes 
the private health providers either at the primary or the secondary 
levels of care.14  To illustrate, rural areas in Nigeria predominantly lacks 
specialised tertiary hospitals, therefore depends largely on private 
health providers, such as patent medical vendors (PMV) for their 
healthcare needs. For example, a survey carried out in 2006 by the 
SMOH in Kano state, North-west Nigeria, found one PMV to every 3,000 
persons as against one primary care facility to every 15,000 persons.15  
 
Health Financing 
The funding for the health sector largely comes from the Federal 
Governments account which in turn is shared among the three tiers of 
government in order for effective financing of the levels of health care 
in the country, namely; the tertiary, secondary, and primary levels. 
Nonetheless, it is pertinent to note that not all regions receive the same 
funds allocation as some are ahead of others. The allocation of funds for 
the health sector is determined by the population size of each state or 
in the instance, region, making use of the federal quota system, that is 
to say, if state A’s populations stands at 3 million, and state B 
population is at 1 million, the funds allocated to state A would be bigger 
                                                           13 World Bank. Gross National Income per Capita 2007. 
http://siteresources.worldbank.org/DATASTATISTICS/Resources/GNIPC.pdf. 14Federal Ministry of Health Health Manpower Situation Analysis 15 Africa Development Indicators the World Bank Group. 2006 
http://siteresources.worldbank.org/INTSTATINAFR/Resources/ADI_2006_textpdf. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Challenges of Health Sector in Nigeria 
25 
 
that that allocated to state B because it is believed that how much a 
state should have is relative to how big the population in that state is.  
 
This therefore leaves worst hit regions with high disease burden with 
limited allocation of funds. To illustrate, the South-south region of the 
country has the lowest population in Nigeria, but the highest rate of 
infant mortality of 120/1000 live births, yet receives the lowest 
funding to its health sector.16  However, the nation’s low health funding 
is a result of only 3.5% proportion of the GDP on health. This is also 
compounded with mismanagement and corruption at each level of 
healthcare delivery especially in the public health sector, leading to 
lack of accountability of the limited health funds. It should also be 
noted that amongst the current state of poverty in the Nigeria 
(approximately60% of the population), household out-of-pocket 
expenditure on health of 80% remains the single largest source of 
health financing in Nigeria.17  This can be argued to be true,  as  
majority  of  the  population (predominantly rural) patronizes private 
for-profit healthcare providers. In addition, the limitation of the 
National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS) to the working elite 
increases the spending on health from the majority of the population 
not covered by the scheme. Thus, the inability to pay for health services 
provided by the private-for profit increases the inequities in utilization 
of health care services. 
 
Health Service Provision 
The provision of health related service is relative both to the private 
sector in the country and the three tier of government.  However, the 
Faith Based Organisations (FBO) and Community Based Organisations 
(CBO) have made significant contribution to the control of malaria and 
                                                           16 Demographic and Health Survey Report. Infant Mortality Rate and Fertility Rate.  17World Bank. Gross National Income per Capita 2007 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                          R. I. Abdullahi 
26 
 
HIV/AIDS services through health promotion activities and counselling 
in most affected regions in Nigeria.18  
However, it is pertinent to note that in regards to the private sector, 
there is definitely inequalities in the provision of health services which 
is determined by the settings of the place whether it is rural or urban. 
Private sector health providers tend to attend more to urban areas 
where they tend to make more profits as compared to the rural areas.  
Therefore, majority of the population (predominantly rural) settles for 
alternative traditional healthcare providers with no evidence of quality 
of services due to the unregulated private health sector. For example, 
89% of women in North-central Nigeria prefer to give birth in the 
presence of traditional birth attendants as against less than 5% in 
urban areas of south-west Nigeria. Furthermore, there are also large 
inequities in health amongst the lower one-fifth of the country’s poor as 
compared to the wealthy class. This can be argued to be attributed to 
the unregulated cost of healthcare services provided in the private 
sector, leaving the rich to afford such luxury care. Although the section 
45 of the Nigerian 1999 constitution overrides individual rights in the 
interest of the public’s health, this jurisdiction does not cover 
utilization of healthcare services through the private sector.19  
 
Human Resources for Health 
In Africa, the supply of HRH in Nigeria is one of the largest, only 
comparable to South Africa and Egypt. The latest figure of 39,210 
doctors and124,629 nurses indicate that there are about 30 doctors 
and 100 nurses to every 100,000 people, compared to the sub-Saharan 
                                                           18 Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS). AIDS Epidemic Update 
2010.  19 Federal Ministry of Health (National Health Management Information 
Systems. Abuja: FMOH,2009, see also Federal Ministry of Health. Health 
Manpower Situation Analysis. Abuja: 
FMOH, 2011.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Challenges of Health Sector in Nigeria 
27 
 
average of 14 doctors and 70 nurses per 100,000 people.20 However, 
there are large disparities in the supply of HRH across different 
population groups in Nigeria. There are reported shortages of health 
professionals in rural areas compared to urban areas. To illustrate, 
more than 60% of women in urban areas delivers with a trained 
qualified health personnel as against 25% in rural areas. There are also 
shortages of health professionals at the primary healthcare level. This 
can be arguably attributed to the low funding of healthcare at the local 
government level, thereby responsible for low payments of health 
personnel. More so, this shortage of HRH also extends to the private 
health sector. With the federal government being the ultimate funder of 
training, many health personnel are not encourage to stay in the 
private health sector due to lack of professional development. This is 
arguably compounded with the lack of job security and relatively low 
payment as compared to their colleagues in the public health sector.21  
 
Challenges Confronting the Health Sector in Nigeria  
Health Policy Formulation 
One of the challenges or problems the health sector in Nigeria is facing 
is the inability to formulate effective health care policies through the 
country’s health formulation mechanisms which is the Federal 
Government through Federal Ministry of Health. For instance, most of 
the policies that were formed by the Federal Government is somewhat 
of a one-way traffic meaning that Abuja initiative overwhelms the 
policies whereas a good policy must receive inputs from all 
stakeholders and the beneficiaries of the policy. Worse still, the policies 
even when they are formulated, lack proper coordination neither are 
they related to any economic target.     
                                                           20 World health Organisation. Core Indicators of Health in Nigeria. Geneva: 
WHO, 2010 21Federal Ministry of Health.Health Manpower Situation Analysis. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                          R. I. Abdullahi 
28 
 
From the onset of Nigeria’s independence, the government had been 
articulating health policies different forms either through its National 
development Plans or through some other governmental decisions. 
More so, the health sector in Nigeria is further worsened by the 
discouraging settings in the country, for instance, the political 
instability coupled with the unsettled economic order has also caused a 
serious setback to health care policy formulation, implementation, 
monitoring and evaluation. From the beginning of the country’s 
independence, there has been no continuity in health policies as there 
is always a frequent change due to the changes in governance in Nigeria 
especially before the post fourth republic in Nigeria. The military had 
its different policies as compared to the civilian government which also 
has their own policies. That is to say, if a government makes a very 
effective policy, the next government that takes over from the 
preceding government either changes them or frustrate those policies.   
 
Human and Material Resources 
One of the challenges affecting the health sector in Nigeria is that the 
distribution of health relevant materials and resources are often 
politicised such that health institutions are sited without adequate 
consideration of needs of the community. In regards to human 
resources as relevant to the health sector, there is a shortage of human 
of this and those not meet up to the World Health Organization (WHO) 
standard of medical personals needed. The WHO threshold for medical 
the availability of medical personnel’s is one doctor allocated to 500 
people; however, Nigeria is far back in keeping to this requirement. 
Much of the health personnel’s in Nigeria are over worked as there is a 
shortage in manpower, and in most cases, patience have to sit for hours 
in order to get medical attention in hospitals even when there is an 
emergency case among the patients on the waiting line, they hardly get 
attended to as per the shortage in the manpower of medical personals. 
More so, the medical personals are not adequately motivated as seen in 
some countries especially the more developed and civilised countries. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Challenges of Health Sector in Nigeria 
29 
 
This does not encourage medical personals to be efficacious in their 
doings. In the same vein, there is a complete brain drain of medical 
personals in the country. This brain drain is caused by the attitude of 
the government towards the medical personal which as an antecedent 
frustrates them and drives them to find greener pastures where their 
skills would be much appreciated. Furthermore, the budget allocated to 
the health sector is not sufficient for effective training and retraining of 
the medical personals and there is little or no improvement by the 
Federal Government to improve on those budgets or make efforts to 
make the training and retraining of medical personals a priority.  
 
Underfunding of the Health Sector 
The health sector in Nigeria is characterised by a serious lack of 
funding of the sector. The underfunding of the sector tends to be of 
serious challenge to the society at whole. Because of the underfunding 
of the health sectors, it has not been able to meet up to the standard of 
the World Health Organisation which requires a country to allocate 
15% of their annual budgets to the health sector. This means that the 
health sector is not properly funded, and if peradventure it was, the 
corruption that eats up the country would not allow for the effective 
timely and complete release of those funds to the health institutions 
and other relevant bodies of health in Nigeria. This gross underfunding 
of the health sector has existed and has been a challenge for several 
years, perhaps since the attainment of the country’s independence. For 
example in the 1980’s, external aids in form of technological know-how 
and personnel were affected by Nigeria's political imbroglio and 
democratization sanction. Then most medical exchange programmes 
that often assist health care delivery services were not forthcoming 
thus creating problems. 
 
Weak Facilities/Infrastructure 
In the same vein as the preceding challenge noted, the gross 
underfunding of the health sector has brought about a dearth in health 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                          R. I. Abdullahi 
30 
 
relevant materials and facilities. The health sector in Nigeria is 
characterise by a weak infrastructural base and weak logistics system 
and structure which ends up to be so defective and, in most instances, 
obsolete. More so, one of the reasons for this is the inadequate 
maintenance of buildings, medical equipment and vehicles coupled 
with the shortage of drugs, poor management of drugs, the expiry of 
drugs and vaccines and other essential requirements for patients care. 
To make this worse, the utility boards in Nigeria make this worse by 
engaging in the fraudulent supply of water, erratic or rather epileptic 
supply of electricity coupled with a poor telecommunication structure. 
The absence of and inadequacy of these infrastructures has proved to 
be of detrimental effect to the health sector and most Nigerian 
hospitals. For instance, some of the public hospitals in Nigeria had no 
priority equipment’s like X-ray machines. Furthermore, making things 
worse is the absence of good transport systems like roads which is 
neglected by the government and this does not make accessibility easy. 
This is one of the reasons why most patients referred from the primary 
level of care, or secondary find it difficult to get to where they can 
obtain a respite for their ailment and most times worsen the case that 
ordinarily requires minor treatment. 
 
Poor Motivation of Health Workers 
The medical personals in Nigeria are not considerably remunerated 
like other countries do to their medical personals, mostly the civilised 
and developed countries though. This in turns comes with some 
negative effects such as the frustration of these medical personals as an 
antecedent they tend to deliver poor service, psychological warfare at 
work, industrial strikes and brain drain, just to mention few absurdities 
arising from poor motivation. Because of the ineffective nature of the 
health sector in Nigeria, numerous immunisation programmes put in 
place by the international health organisations like the WHO could not 
be able to keep to standard, thus, a effective execution of those 
immunisations. For instance, there is the inadequate storage of some of 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Challenges of Health Sector in Nigeria 
31 
 
the vaccine which requires a very cold environment for preservation 
and eventual use. Some of the immunisation officials contacted back up 
this argument by their responses on how the immunisation 
implementation is being carried out in the country. They complained of 
bad roads and especially some of the rural areas where it is nearly 
impossible to reach to the proposed destination for immunisation.  
Regrettably, it appears that the Nigerian Government seems to have 
been trivializing theories of motivation (theory X and Y) and of course 
the implication of this attitude is low productivity and poor 
performance. This is not in tandem with good administration of health 
care delivery. 
 
Insecurity Challenges 
As proceeding to the above is the political and socio-economic settings 
of the country. The country is characterise by an unstable political 
order, insecurity is in the increase, the restlessness of the Youths who 
believe that there is no equity in the distribution of national wealth to 
Niger Delta geopolitical zone. So in a situation where hostage of citizens 
with heavy demand for ransom before release, kidnapping and 
bombing are continuous daily or weekly occurrence, implementation of 
health policy in such hostile environments is a mirage/ruse and is 
handicapped as no doctors, pharmacists, nurses, image scientists and 
laboratory technologists or Chief Medical Directors would want to lose 
their life untimely or prematurely. Monitoring and evaluation of health 
policy   implementation   in   such   hostile environment is also in 
question. 
 
Political and Bureaucratic Corruption 
Policy Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation in the health sector 
is a challenge in a country where corruption has gone deep, tearing the 
fabrics of the society. Unarguably, corruption is a misnomer. It replaces 
meritocracy with mediocracy. Corruption in health sector has gone far 
in such a way that, teaching hospital had being visited for accreditation 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                          R. I. Abdullahi 
32 
 
of its facilities and human resources and Chief Medical Director hired 
temporary specialists e.g. Cardiologists, image scientists paediatrics 
and psychiatrists etc. just to meet the percentage set by the visitors and 
after the accreditation, it is back to square one – shortage of human 
resources. Another example of corruption and ethical indecency is 
diversion of patients to privately owned hospital by a public hospital 
doctor or pharmacist or nurse. This is unethical behaviour. 
Corruption features nearly everywhere in Nigeria and it is a social virus 
which has almost destroyed efficiency, effectiveness and performance 
or organisations providing service delivery in Nigeria. You may also 
wish to see political corruption among the politicians. However, one 
advantage the health sector has is that each of the team has ethical oath 
if it ethically complies with e.g. (1) Physician Oaths (Hippocratic Oath) 
(2) Code of Ethics for Nursing Profession (3) Pharmacist Oath etc. The 
Declaration of Geneva (Physicians Oath Declaration) adopted by the 
General Assembly of the World Medical Association at Geneva, 
Switzerland, September 1948 and amended by 22nd World Medical 
Assembly, Sydney, Australia, August 1968, is antithetic to corruption if 
complied with and respect strict senso. Again, like the Doctors' 
Hippocratic Oath, the Nurses pledge is in alignment with the 
anticorruption crusade.22 
Paradoxically, most of the rules of professional conduct are at times 
blatantly violated by some health workers for one personal reason or 
the other, who have one time or the other gone on industrial strike 
contrary to item “d”: “the health of my patients will be my first 
consideration”? In the same vein, some nurses in the antenatal and 
labour wards in some hospitals have been notorious for being rude to 
patients and are said to have being in the culture of abusing pregnant 
women at the crucial stage of labour pain when they seriously need 
                                                           22Omoleke, I.I. “The Primary Health Care Services in Nigeria: Constraints to Option 
Performance”, N J M, Vol.14.2 (2005): 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Challenges of Health Sector in Nigeria 
33 
 
their care. This is also a very serious challenge in the obstetric 
department and in the hospitals in general. This type of behaviour is 
tantamount to battery and assault in the law of medicine and is 
actionable and punishable if the culprit is found guilty. Such 
action/attitude is also incompatible with their professional ethical 
codes. 
 
Health Sector Budget 
The Nigeria health sector budget is not impressive as it has never 
moved closer to World Health Organization template of 15% of the 
members' annual budget to be allocated to the health sector. This 
recalcitrant act of the Nigeria Governments, past and present is inimical 
to health care infrastructural development and save delivery services. 
It affects so many units of health development. The poor health 
financing arising from lean budget often results in weak and obsolete 
infrastructure in the hospitals, congestion of patients to access health 
care because of limited human resources, poor supply of water, wards 
congestion, irregular supply of electricity, weak telemedicine facility 
and recruitment, training and retraining of staff of hospitals etc. 
Nigerian hospitals are “mere consulting clinics without drugs, 
dressings, water and electricity”. What a serious challenge that is 
surmountable but not well addressed by the Nigeria Governments, an 
oil producing state for that matter. 
 
Federal Governments Breach of Agreements 
It appears that Federal Governments of Nigeria have a tendency to 
breach any agreement duly signed with tertiary institutions. To this 
end, the other party has no option except to embark on industrial 
action which had happened in Nigeria teaching hospitals when doctors, 
pharmacists and nurses abandoned their duties. The effect of breach of 
contract by the Federal Government now leads us to another serious 
challenge of Industrial Strike. Yet the Nigeria Constitution recognizes 
the importance of health when it states in Section 17 Subsection 3(c) 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                          R. I. Abdullahi 
34 
 
“The state shall direct its policy towards ensuring that the health safety 
and welfare of all persons in employment are safeguarded and not 
endangered or abused”, what a paradox! 
 
Inter Professional Conflicts 
Unfortunately, investigation and empirical research revealed that inter- 
professional conflicts are rife in the hospitals. Such conflicts have been 
smouldering among the professionals in the hospitals, especially 
among the nurses, pharmacists and doctors. The causes of such 
conflicts seem to bother on unnecessary rivalry and envy. We want to 
submit that such cut- throat conflicts and inferiority complex can breed 
professional animosity and this can affect the patients in their care. 
When two elephants fight, the grass suffers. 
 
Use of Telemedicine 
This is also a technological development in the health sector and it 
constitutes a challenge in the Nigeria health sector because of poor 
electricity, the internet and weak communication system being 
experienced in Nigeria. 
 
Conclusion  
The study did well to bring out in light the nature of the Nigerian health 
sector. The study reveals that Nigeria health sector is in a bad state. The 
study reveals that less that 49% of rural dwellers in Nigeria barely have 
access to clean water and also sanitisation as compared to 72% of the 
population in the urban areas who have no problem of accessing clean 
water and sanitation. It concludes that this is because of the inability of 
the government to follow up with its health policies and also provide 
basic social amnesties. And so to be able to improve on its health 
sector, the study recognised that the Federal Government have to place 
a priority in the implementation and evaluation of health relevant 
policies and not just on the formulation of these various policies.  
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Challenges of Health Sector in Nigeria 
35 
 
Reference  
 
Africa Development Indicators the World Bank Group.2006 
http://siteresources.worldbank.org/INTSTATINAFR/Resources/ADI_2
006_textpdf. 
Demographic and Health Survey Report. Infant Mortality Rate and 
Fertility Rate. 
Federal Ministry of Health. National Health Management Information 
Systems. Abuja: FMOH, 2009. 
Federal Ministry of Health (National Health Management Information 
Systems. Abuja: FMOH, 2009.   
Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) AIDS 
Epidemic Update 2010. Geneva: UNAIDS, 2010 
Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS). AIDS 
Epidemic Update 2010. 
National Health and Development Survey Nigeria Health Indicators. 
2006 http://www.census.gov.ph/ncr/ncrweb/ncr_ndhs/index_ 
NDHS.htm. [Acces 
Omoleke, I .I. “The Primary Health Care Services in Nigeria: Constraints 
to Option Performance”, N J M, Vol.14.2 (2005): 
United Nations Population Division (2010) State of World Population 
2010: Unleashing the Potential of Urban Growth. New York: 
UNPD. 
World Bank. Gross National Income per Capita 2007 
World Bank. Gross National Income per Capita 2007. 
http://siteresources.worldbank.org/DATASTATISTICS/Resour
ces/GNIPC.pdf. 
World health Organisation (2010) Core Indicators of Health in Nigeria. 
Geneva: WHO. Population Reference Bureau (2010) World 
Population Data Sheet [online]. Available from: 
http://www.prb.org/Publications/Datasheets/2010/2010Worl
dPopulationD. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                          R. I. Abdullahi 
36 
 
World health Organisation.Core Indicators of Health in Nigeria. Geneva: 
WHO, 2010 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Health and Hygiene CDS Group and National Development in Nigeria 
37 
 
 33 33    
    NYSC Health and Hygiene CDS Group and National 
Development in Nigeria 
 
 
Ntagu, Miracle Promise  
 
 
Introduction 
Youths are one of the greatest assets that any nation can have; they are 
usually embedded with untainted energy, robust and virile potentials 
for charting a new path of social production. Anasi has observed that 
the youths are the foundation of a society and thus their strategic value 
makes them very critical in nation- building and leadership 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                          N. M. Promise  
38 
recruitment1. The energies, inventiveness, character and orientation of 
the youths defined the pace of development and the security of a 
nation. Youths can also constitute a reservoir of energy and dynamism 
for any national struggle or campaign if they are correctly guided, 
mobilized, and fully integrated into the social fabrics of the nation. 
Good hygiene is an important barrier to many infectious diseases, 
including the faecal–oral diseases and it promotes better health and 
well-being. To derive sound health, improvements in hygiene should be 
made concurrently with improvements in the water supply and 
sanitation2 .   The fundamental public health issue is to discuss how to 
improve personal and community hygiene practices that could help to 
prevent the spread of faecal–oral diseases. These personal and 
community hygiene includes hand washing, laundry, bathing, market, 
animal rearing and street food vendors. Proper hand washing is one of 
the most effective ways of preventing the spread of communicable 
diseases. Regular bathing and laundering are also important for 
cleanliness and good personal appearance. These actions prevent 
hygiene-related diseases such as scabies, ringworm, trachoma, 
conjunctivitis and louse-borne typhus. In addition, bathing with soap is 
an important means of preventing the transmission of trachoma, an 
illness that can cause blindness and other eyesight problems.  
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) – a product of federal 
military government of the Gowon’s Regime, which was established as 
a post-civil war intervention in 1973 became institutionalized under 
decree No. 24, with the purpose of:  
• promoting national unity  
• fostering common socio-cultural ties among the youths of 
Nigeria  
                                                           1 Anasi, S.N. (2010). Curbing Youth Restiveness in Nigeria: The Role of Information 
and Libraries. Library Philosophy and Practice. 2UNICEF (2016).Sanitation, Hygiene and Water Supply in Urban Slums. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Health and Hygiene CDS Group and National Development in Nigeria 
39 
 
• and integration of the teaming youth population3. 
 In Nigerian context, it can be observed from the national youth policy 
declaration, that there are variations between the general definition of 
a youth – i.e. a person between ages 18 and 35 years and the 
organisational youth corps classifications of a youth – i.e. a person 
between ages 18 and 30.The target youth group for this programme 
are young Nigerian graduates, eligible to participate in the National 
Youth Service Corps (NYSC) (i.e. persons who are 30 years and 
below)4. Nigerian graduates are mobilized and brought together from 
the various ethnic backgrounds, regardless of religious beliefs, 
country/state of study and cultural affiliation, for the purpose of 
“national building‟ and development.  
 Immediately after establishment, the NYSC became an operational 
vehicle for harnessing and showcasing the collective capabilities of 
Nigerian youths for Nigeria’s national development drive through its 
youth deployment strategy into key sectors of the economy5. The key 
fields to which corps members were to be deployed as mentioned in 
the enabling decree included hospitals, farms, water-schemes, road 
construction, surveying and mapping, social and economic services, 
schools, food storage and pest eradication, rehabilitation centres, 
sports development, government departments and statutory 
                                                           3National Youth Service Corps.“Objectives of the Scheme”. Accessed on 
26thFebruary, 2021 from NYSC Official Website: 
http://www.nysc.gov.ng/objectives.php 4National Youth Service Corps.(2015). “ABCs of Community Development Service”. 
NYSC National Headquarters, Abuja: Press and Publicity Unit.  5Obadare, Ebenezer (2015). Statism, Youth and Civic Imagination: A Critical Study 
of The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Centre for Civil Society, Old Building, 
Houghton Street, London.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                          N. M. Promise  
40 
corporations, development projects of local councils and the private 
sector of the economy6.  
Initially, the service was divided into primary and secondary 
assignments. For the primary assignment, each of the corps members 
was deployed to perform his national service in a field relevant to his 
qualification. The secondary assignment takes four weeks and involves 
mobilization of Corps members in groups to perform community and 
rural development in various locations (Ibid). Recent, Federal 
Government has approved NYSC deployment strategy into only four 
key sectors of the economy (agriculture, education health and rural 
infrastructure development). The NYSC Medical and Health Services 
Group (Red Cross, Breast without Spot, Polio Plus) is involved in the 
promotion and provision of Medical Services, Health outreach, First Aid 
administration, Establishment of Community based clinic, Setting up of 
clinic for the NYSC Secretariat etc7. This paper therefore appraises the 
role of the NYSC-CDS in Public Health development in Nigeria. 
 
Health, Hygiene and National Development 
Numerous studies have shown that the incidence of many diseases is 
reduced when people have access to, and make regular use of adequate 
sanitary installations8.  It has been documented that about 24% of 
global diseases with high mortality ratio is caused by environmental 
exposures which can be averted. Nevertheless, most of these deaths are 
preventable through adequate environmental sanitation practices. The 
rules and laws, the government officials and titles, the physical 
boundaries and those who define them all constitute the state. The 
                                                           6NYSC (2014): NYSC Magazine, The Journal of NYSC Directorate Headquarters. 
Abuja:  National Youth Service Corps Service. 7FMYD (2013a): 2013 Ministerial Platform Presentation: Mid-Term Report of the 
Ministry of Youth Development, Abuja: Federal Ministry of Youth Development, 
Nigeria.  8Aremu, A. S. (2012). Assessment of Sanitation Facilities in Primary Schools within 
Ilorin, Nigeria. Journal of Applied Sciences in Environmental Sanitation 7(1): 29-33.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Health and Hygiene CDS Group and National Development in Nigeria 
41 
 
state is what makes the country run from a political view9. On the other 
hand, the people constitute the cultural aspect of the nation. The nation 
is created by a shared belief that the people inside a country are 
connected to each other. For instance inhabitants of Cleveland, Denver, 
or San Francisco all share a connection with other Americans. Just as 
inhabitants of Plateau, Niger, Kano and Cross River States share a 
connection with other Nigerians. The existence of nations as an entity 
of government, territory, population and sovereignty makes the 
interplay of factors which impact on it important. Consequently the link 
between social, cultural, economic, political, and physical factors among 
others have significant impact on the entity nations. Among these 
factors is the health status of the population which is crucial to the 
existence of such nations. In the past the health status of communities 
has been affected by variants of diseases. For instance when the 
indigenous peoples of the Americas encountered European settlers in 
the 15th century, they faced people with wildly different religions, 
customs, and diseases of pandemic proportion. These diseases included 
infectious diseases such as smallpox, measles, influenza, bubonic 
plague, diphtheria, typhus, cholera, scarlet fever, chicken pox, yellow 
fever, and whooping cough. The encounters wiped out large portions of 
indigenous populations within decades10. Research further reveals that, 
among 18 Pueblo villages investigated, populations sank from roughly 
6,500 people, to less than 900 in just 60 years. Further to causing a 
decline in population, a new study suggests that infectious diseases 
brought by the Europeans from smallpox to measles, have shaped the 
immune systems of today’s indigenous Americans, down to the genetic 
level. 
                                                           9Christopher Musato “What is the Nation State” available at   
http://study.com/academy/lesson/nation-state-definition-examples 
characteristics.html. accessed on 5th March 2021. 10Michael “European diseases left a genetic mark on Native Americans” Nov. 15, 
2016 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                          N. M. Promise  
42 
The forgoing indicates that from the plagues of biblical times to the 
COVID-19 pandemic of today, public health have played indisputably 
major roles in human history. The continual growth of human 
populations since prehistoric times has led to successive invasions of 
the human population by increasing numbers of different disease 
causing organisms called pathogens. Today many people's worries 
about emerging pathogens have been sharply focused by the Ebola 
virus outbreak in Kikwit, Zaire, and by Lyme disease and Hantavirus 
outbreaks throughout the United States11. Health and hygiene thus has 
a great impact in moulding the population and determines to a great 
extent the way of life of a nation. The diseases status of the population 
further determines whether such nation continues to exist or not.  This 
health and hygiene status could affect nation building and development 
as no nation thrives on ill health. Good health and hygiene which is 
essential to human development, advancement and growth is thus a 
vital factor in the growth and existence of the nation. It determines the 
degree of happiness and well-being of the population that constitutes 
the nation. The absence of disease which could be translated as good 
health promotes economic progress as healthy populations live longer 
and are more productive. Mr Kofi Annan, a one time Secretary General 
of the United Nations (UN) stated that the biggest enemy of health in 
the developing world is hygiene and poverty. Poverty is linked to the 
Per Capita Income (PCI) of the nation. PCI on the other hand is strongly 
related to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of the nation which in a 
roundabout way related to the population size. Furthermore, the GDP 
among other criteria is used for categorising nations as developed or 
developing nations.  
The foregoing extrapolations indicate that the health status of a nation 
could impact on diverse aspects of a nation. The health is defined by the 
                                                           11 Frankish, CJ et al. "Health Impact Assessment as a Tool for Population Health 
Promotion and  Public Policy" Vancouver: Institute of Health Promotion 
Research, University of British Columbia, 2016. Retrieved 2021-3-02). 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Health and Hygiene CDS Group and National Development in Nigeria 
43 
 
World Health Organisation as the complete state of physical, mental, 
and social wellbeing and not merely the absence of disease or 
infirmity12 . Health has also been defined from the population health 
perspective. The population health perspective defines health not 
simply as a state free from disease but as the capacity of people to 
adapt to, respond to, or control life's challenges and changes. From 
these definitions, the components of health are physical, social and 
mental wellbeing in addition to the absence of disease in all its forms. It 
indicates that an interplay of Social Determinants of Health (SDOH) 
play a potential role in health. Such as determinants include the social, 
environmental, cultural and physical parameters different populations 
are born into, grow up and function in throughout their lifetimes which 
ultimately have a measurable impact on the health of the population. 
These parameters by having an impact on the health status of the 
population directly impact on the extent to which this population is 
affected by disease, particularly infectious diseases.  
Ill-health and diseases have the propensity to be passed from one 
individual to another through pathogenic microorganisms. Examples of 
some important diseases are malaria, cholera, HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis 
and syphilis among others. The burden of these diseases constitutes a 
major source of concern to nations even today as it has great 
implications. For instance according to the World Health Organisation 
(WHO) in 2004, about one-fifth of all global deaths were a result of 
infectious and parasitic diseases. Diseases previously controlled 
through public health measures are also increasing in frequency due to 
absence of hygiene practices. These include tuberculosis, malaria, 
dengue fever and cholera. New diseases have also emerged within the 
last century, such as HIV/ AIDS, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome 
                                                           12 Daniel Callahan, Journal Article, “The WHO Definition of Health” The Hastings 
Center Studies Vol. 1, No. 3, The Concept of Health (1973), pp. 77-87 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                          N. M. Promise  
44 
(SARS), Lyme disease and West Nile fever13. Developing countries are 
the most affected. The rate of death from infectious and parasitic 
diseases is almost 14 times higher in low-income countries than in high 
income countries. Again the WHO for instance estimates that 214 
million new cases of malaria worldwide were reported in 2015. The 
African Region accounted for most global cases of malaria at 88 per 
cent followed by the South-East Asia Region at 10 per cent. Meanwhile 
he Eastern Mediterranean Region accounts for 2 per cent. In the same 
year there were an estimated 438,000 deaths from malaria alone 
worldwide. Most of these deaths occurred in the African Region with 90 
per cent, South-East Asia with 7 per cent and the Eastern 
Mediterranean Region with 2 per cent. Children under five are 
particularly susceptible to malaria illness, infection and death. In the 
same year 2015 malaria killed an estimated 306,000 under-fives 
globally, including 292,000 children in the African Region. Regions such 
as the Europe however reported zero indigenous cases of malaria in 
2015 14. These figures indicate the impact of malaria illness on the 
population of Africa in particular. Yet other infectious diseases are 
equally devastating Africa, particularly sub-Saharan Africa. 
 
NYSC Health and Hygiene CDS Group and Community 
Development 
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) scheme was created in a bid 
to reconstruct, reconcile and rebuild the economy after the Nigerian 
Civil War. It was established by decree No. 24 of 22nd May, 1973 which 
stated that it is being established “with a view to the proper 
encouragement and development of common ties among the youths of 
Nigeria and the promotion of National Unity”15. Poverty, mass literacy, 
                                                           13 McMichael, A J, 2014 “Environmental and Social Influence on Emerging 
Infectious Diseases: Past, Present and Future.” The Royal Society 359: 1049-1058 
accessed 19 June 2017. 14World Malaria Report, 2015 accessed 7th March 2021. 15  NYSC (2016): NYSC Magazine, The Journal of NYSC Directorate Headquarters. 
Abuja: National Youth Service Corps Service. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Health and Hygiene CDS Group and National Development in Nigeria 
45 
 
shortage of skilled manpower, inadequate socio-economic 
infrastructural facilities, disunity,  intolerance,  etc. are  other  
conditions  that  plagued  the  country  which  necessitated  the  then 
Yakubu Gowon administration to rethink. The NYSC Community 
Development Service (CDS) is a year-round affair. It is one of the four 
(4) cardinal points of NYSC. Through the CDS, members of the Service 
Corps  work  with  the  local  communities  to  promote  self-reliance  by  
systematically  prospecting  and executing development projects and 
programme which impact positively on the socio-economic 
development of the host communities. Members of the service Corps 
are called “Corps Members” originally and in principle or “Corpers” on a 
general note informally.  Each Corps Member is compulsorily assigned 
to a particular CDS group as his/her Group CDS, while Personal CDS 
project/programme is optional for interested Corps Members. Group 
CDS is to be attended once in a week and the remaining four (4) days 
for Place of Primary Assignment. Place of Primary Assignment is the 
institutional attachment of Corps Members where they are expected to 
work like staff.  
 
Objectives of NYSC Health and Hygiene CDS Groups 
The objectives of NYSC-CDS as spelled out in the Corps Members CDS 
handbook titled “ABC of CDS” are as follows:    
1.  Impacting positively on the improvement of rural community 
life.   
2.  Developing the spirit of entrepreneurship in the Corps 
Members.   
3.  To utilize the challenges which rural development poses and 
inculcate in the Nigerian Youth the ideals and capacities for 
leadership, endurance, selflessness, community service, 
national service, patriotism and creativity.   
4.  Exposing Corps Members to diverse traditions and customs of 
the host communities.   
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                          N. M. Promise  
46 
5. Providing  the  forum  for  Corps Members  to  experiment  with  
ideas  and translate  them  into concrete achievements thereby 
relying less  on foreign technology and encouraging the  use of 
local raw materials in the execution of projects.   
6.  Harnessing the enormous talents and skills of Corps Members 
into an effective machinery of change in our rural communities.   
7.  Providing on-the-job training and experience for Corps 
Members.   
8.  Providing complementary service in our National development 
activities, by ensuring that our under-privileged population 
learns basic techniques for self-help through the appropriate 
technology concept being promoted by NYSC.   
9.  To instill in Corps Members the tradition of dignity of labour 
and productivity.   
10.  To complement the activities of government at all levels in the 
stride towards national development16.   
The NYSC has three major CDS Group bordering directly on 
health vis-à-vis Reproductive Health & HIV/ AIDS Group, 
Medical and Health Services Group (Red Cross, Breast without 
Spot, Polio Plus) and Drug Free and Quality Control Group 
(NDLEA, NAFDAC, SON)  
The Reproductive Health & HIV/ AIDS Group focuses on the following; 
• To train and mentor Students  
• To mobilize and strengthen community based responses  on 
HIV/AIDS prevention   
• Sensitization and Campaign. 
 
                                                           16 Amos, V. (September 3rd 2015). “Role of the National Youth Service Corps on 
National Development”. Accessed from The Ink Newspaper Online: 
 http://theinknewspaper.blogspot.co.ke./2015/09/role-of-national-youth-
service- corps.html?m=1  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Health and Hygiene CDS Group and National Development in Nigeria 
47 
 
Similarly, the Medical and Health Services Group focuses on the 
following; 
• Promotion and provision of Medical Services  
• Health outreach  
• First Aid administration  
• Establishment of Community based clinic  
• Setting up of clinic for the NYSC Secretariat  
Finally, the Drug Free and Quality Control Group (NDLEA, NAFDAC, and 
SON) focus on the following; 
• Eradication of fake and adulterated foods and drugs  
• Create awareness ondanger ofdrug abuse.  
• Establishment of  drug free clubs in Schools  
• Ensuring  linkages  with  the  host Communities17 
 
The Impact of Public Health, Hygiene and Diseases on the Nation 
Lack of hygiene maintenance gives rise to varied diseases on the nation. 
These diseases could have varied impact on the nation. Some of these 
impacts include its significance on security of the nation, economic 
implications, social, cultural and environmental implications among 
others. Health and human security are fundamentally valued in all 
societies but their connections and interdependencies are not well 
understood18. Nonetheless, some authors assert a solid association 
between health and security.  “National security and public health 
experts agree that infectious diseases pose a substantial direct and 
indirect threat to Nations”. Such assertions are based on a growing 
body of evidence that associates infectious diseases with effects that 
may ultimately threaten both human and national concepts of security. 
                                                           17 National Youth Service Corps (April, 2016). “Rivers KopaMagazine”.A Bi-annual 
Publication of Press and Public Relations Unit, NYSC Rivers State. 18 Iwu, R. U, Onoja A. I, Oguwuike, T. U, Ogwo, V. O &Egerouh, Sanitary Status of 
Urban Settlement: Implication for Tropical Diseases Control in Nigeria (A.I 
Department of Biology AlvanIkoku Federal College Education, Owerri, Imo State, 
Nigeria. 2014). 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                          N. M. Promise  
48 
Disease can affect individuals and thereby weaken public confidence in 
a government’s ability to respond. Infectious diseases cause an adverse 
economic impact, undermine a state’s social order, and catalyze 
regional instability. It further poses a strategic threat through bio-
terrorism or bio warfare. The following are a summary of research that 
has associated specific effects of infectious disease with threats to 
security.  
• Direct Mortality and Morbidity 
The most obvious effect of diseases that may result in the instability of 
a nation is the ability to cause high mortality rates. Ill-health could pose 
a direct risk to a nation’s security by threatening to sicken and kill a 
significant portion of the population of a nation. When a disease targets 
a sector of a population that is relied upon for military protection the 
situation can be dangerous to such a nation. In Nigeria, COVID infection 
is a disease with such a tendency more so that a cure has yet been 
found for it. Malaria though prevalent at least has a treatment and so 
does meningitis which has a vaccine. The threat of direct mortality and 
morbidity calls for serious consideration of ways of tackling such 
certain hygienic practices. 
• Economic Loss 
An outbreak or even the perceived threat of an outbreak could have 
significant repercussions on trade and travel for the affected nation. 
The economic effects of infectious diseases are endemic with the case 
in malaria or epidemic with cholera could be devastating. For instance 
it is estimated that the GDP of Africa would be nearly one-third higher 
if malaria alone had been eliminated many decades ago19. Today many 
particularly from the western world who have no resistance to malaria 
dread travelling to Africa and Nigeria in particular. Many of these 
impacts such as loss of productivity and commerce are indirect. Direct 
impacts include direct economic costs particularly in the medical costs 
                                                           19 U.S. Government General Accounting Office (2001, p.2). 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Health and Hygiene CDS Group and National Development in Nigeria 
49 
 
of treating infectious diseases. Additionally the UN estimated in 2002 
that $20 billion would be needed by 2007 to provide adequate 
prevention and care for populations affected by HIV/AIDS in low- and 
middle-income countries20 . 
• Social Impacts and National Security 
The fear and anxiety over a disease can cause significant social 
disruption. HIV/AIDS has accounted for approximately 20 million 
deaths worldwide. Between 34.6 and 42.3 million people were living 
with HIV/AIDS in 2018, and the disease had orphaned approximately 
12 million children in sub-Saharan Africa alone21 . Half of new infections 
occur among 15- to 24-year-olds a traditionally productive segment of 
society. The reduction of this demographic group can lead to economic 
loss due to reduced productivity. It also represents the loss of a core 
group of parents, social leaders, and key members of society, such as 
teachers and soldiers. Ministries of defense in some sub-Saharan 
African countries report HIV prevalence averages of 20–40 percent in 
their armed services, potentially affecting their military capabilities. 
Not surprisingly, HIV/AIDS in sub-Saharan Africa has been associated 
with the destabilization of infrastructures needed for governance.  
 
NYSC-Medical and Health Services Group and Community 
Development in Nigeria 
In the aspect of community help, Abdulazeez testified that Corps 
Members attached to NYSC Medical and Health services of Kwara State 
do public enlightenments in motor parks and selected junctions, visit to 
                                                           20David Heymann “The Evolving Infectious Disease Threat: Implication for national 
and global security” http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/ accessed 3rd  
March 2021. 21 Federal Ministry of Health, 2018; Nigeria National Agency for the Control of  
AIDS, (2018) accessed 2nd March 2021 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                          N. M. Promise  
50 
traffic victims in hospitals, etc22 . By way promoting good medical and 
hygiene activities, Ajayi testified that the Medical and Health services 
CDS Group of NYSC Lagos State had in 2015 executed a cultural 
programme titled “Clean the Polluted Land” which has in attendance 
various community leaders, Corps Members and NYSC officials. In the 
act of giving back to the society, a Corps Member, Mr. Aladefa 
Moradeyo with state code number KW/15A/1626 donated a set of 
school First aid  apparatus to 100  pupils  of  Gaa Ayelabaowo  Primary  
School, Oko-olowo,  Ilorin, Kwara  State  on 7th March, 201623 . Konk 
Naija Media reported that Francis Okoye with state code number 
KW/12B/0069 delivered 2.5million Naira in CDS projects in Offa, 
Kwara State on the construction of a borehole and a billboard, donated 
2000 writing materials to six primary schools, one hundred treated 
mosquito nets to 100 families, one  hundred pairs  of school  sandals  to 
five  selected  primary  schools,  one hundred  West African 
Examination Council (WAEC) recommended novels (Blind Trust) and 
one hundred pens to one hundred SS1 students, organised quiz 
competition,  train less privileged on entrepreneurial skills including 
baking of cakes, chin-chin, egg roll, among others.    
Sir-Kenayo observed that Corps Members at Ota, Ogun State embarked 
on a sensitization and cleaning exercise titled “Operation Keep Ota 
Clean” in collaboration with Ogun State Environmental Protection 
Agency on the need of keeping environment clean. The exercise 
experienced a good turn-out with Corps Members picking all the dirt 
and keeping drainages clean. The topic they sensitized people on were;  
Global  Warming; Effect  of  Illegal  Dumping  of  Refuse; Air  and  Water  
Pollution;  Health  and Hygiene; and Recycling of Waste24 . The Nation 
                                                           22 Abdulazeez, S.T. (2016). "Importance of National Youth Service". KwaraKopa 
Magazine. 2016. 23 Batch A. NYSC Kwara 2016: Press and Public Relations Unit.  24Sir-Kenayo (2016). “Ogun Corpers: Operation Keep Ota Clean CDS Projects in 
Pictures”. Accessed from http://www.sirkenayo.com/ogun-corpers-operation-
keep-ota-clean-cds-projects-in-pictures/accessed on 3rd March 2021 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Health and Hygiene CDS Group and National Development in Nigeria 
51 
 
gathered on 18th March, 2016  that Okeke  Stanley, Corps  Member, built  
a  bore  hole and  a well-stocked  library at  the Community  Secondary 
school,  Nkomoro,  Ezza North, Ebonyi State25 . Vanguard, on  28th June,  
2012 captured  the efforts  of  four Corps  Members –Otto  Oronom 
Harmony, Oyelaja Olusola Olayenu, Emuveyan Tejiri and Amaeze 
Ugochukwu who served Lagos State in 2011/2012. Otto donated 
hundreds of mosquito nets to hundreds of families in Makoko, 500 
novel and books to under-privileged children, established Millenium 
Development Clubs in two (2) secondary schools and built 
rehabilitation home for ex-sex workers.  Emuveyan’s  work  included a 
construction  of  bore  hole  for Taiwo  Street  -  Idiabara, renovation of 
a classroom into a modern library for students of Golden Secondary 
School, donated 50 mosquito  nets  to different  families on  World 
Malaria Day,  trained over  600 people  in five  different communities  
on the  then MDGs26 . 
 
Conclusion 
In conclusion it is vital for Nigeria to realize the implications of a 
deteriorating health status of the populace. As the health condition of 
the populace deteriorates, it has adverse effects on the developmental 
efforts of the government and as such the people suffer. Furthermore, 
as socioeconomic parameters remain largely unmet, the health of the 
populace is at stake with little or no infrastructure and resources to 
tackle the deteriorating health conditions. In order to promote hygiene, 
laundering of clothes and bedding would require constructing laundry 
slabs or sinks near water points. Markets often represent a health 
                                                           25Anioke, O. (March 18th 2016). “Corps Member Honoured for Donating Borehole, 
Library”.  Accessed from The Nation: http://www.thenationonlineng.net/corps-
member-honoured- donating-borehole-library/ accessed on 5th March 2021 26Arenyaka, L. (June 28th 2012).  “NYSC Lagos State Honours Award: A Tale of Four 
Corps  Members”. Accessed from Vanguard: http://www.vanguardngr 
.com/2012/06/nysc-lagos- state-honours-award-a-tale-of-four-corps-members/ 
accessed on 5th March 2021 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                          N. M. Promise  
52 
hazard because foodstuffs may not be stored properly.  Additionally, 
the markets may lack basic services, such as water supply, sanitation, 
solid waste disposal and drainage. Ideally, markets should have several 
taps to provide traders and customers with ready access to safe water 
for drinking and washing. Market areas should also be properly 
drained to prevent flooding and insect breeding. Animals should always 
be kept away from households, particularly cooking areas and 
drinking-water sources, since their excreta contain pathogens that can 
contaminate food and water. Animal waste should be disposed 
properly, away from homes and water sources, or be used as fertilizer. 
Finally, Street food-vendors commonly operate under less hygiene 
environment, Although people enjoy food from these vendors, in many 
cases the food is of poor quality and it represents a serious health risk. 
Moreover, the street vendors often keep cooked food at ambient 
temperatures for prolonged period of time and may warm the food 
only slightly before serving.  All these factors may make the food from 
street vendors dangerous. 
It is a clear fact that NYSC does not only empower the youths as one of 
its objectives. It has also been impacting  in  the  socioeconomic  
development  of  various  communities  through  its CDS  component. 
Examples of projects like building of schools, construction of ICT centre 
and library, construction of sporting facility, sensitization campaigns on 
environmental hazards and road safety, etc., are clear indications of 
community development.  Thus, the study maintained that CDS scheme 
of NYSC is highly relevant in community development as various 
instances showed that different communities have been benefiting 
from the efforts of Corps Members with sense of purpose and unity, 
sometimes assisted by philanthropists, NGOs and other stakeholders.  
The study therefore suggests the following; 
• The Nigerian government and NYSC officials should retain and 
empower the component. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Health and Hygiene CDS Group and National Development in Nigeria 
53 
 
• The Nigerian government and NYSC officials should device 
more ways of encouraging Service Corps Members to engage in 
more CDS projects/programmes. 
• More of collaborative CDS should be made available so as to 
assist the Corps Members with technical skills and 
sponsorships at ease.  
• Benefitting communities should be engaged throughout the 
execution of the project/programme.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                          N. M. Promise  
54 
References 
Abdulazeez, S.T. (2016). "Importance of National Youth Service". Kwara 
Kopa Magazine. 2016  
Amos, V. (September 3rd 2015). “Role of the National Youth Service 
Corps on National Development”. Accessed from The Ink 
Newspaper Online: http://theinknewspaper.blogspot.co.ke. 
/2015/ 09/role-of-national-youth-service-corps. html?m=1  
Anasi, S.N. (2010). Curbing Youth Restiveness in Nigeria: The Role of 
Information and Libraries. Library Philosophy and Practice. 
Anioke, O. (March 18th 2016). “Corps Member Honoured for Donating 
Borehole, Library”.  Accessed from The Nation: 
http://www.thenationonlineng.net/corps-member-honoured-
donating-borehole-library/ accessed on 5th March 2021 
Aremu, A. S. (2012). Assessment of Sanitation Facilities in Primary 
Schools within Ilorin, Nigeria. Journal of Applied Sciences in 
Environmental Sanitation 7(1): 29-33.  
Arenyaka, L. (June 28th2012).  “NYSC Lagos State Honours Award: A 
Tale of Four Corps Members”. Accessed from Vanguard: 
http://www.vanguardngr.com/2012/06/nysc-lagos-state-
honours-award-a-tale-of-four-corps-members/ accessed on 5th 
March 2021 
Batch A. NYSC Kwara 2016: Press and Public Relations Unit.  
Christopher Musato “What is the Nation State” available at   
http://study.com/academy/lesson/nation-state-definition-
examples characteristics.html. accessed on 5th March 2021 
Daniel Callahan, Journal Article, “The WHO Definition of Health” The 
Hastings Center Studies Vol. 1, No. 3, The Concept of Health 
(1973), pp. 77-87 
David Heymann “The Evolving Infectious Disease Threat: Implication 
for national and global security” http://www.tandfonline.com/ 
doi/abs/10.1080/ accessed 3rd March 2021. 
Federal Ministry of Health, 2018; Nigeria National Agency for the 
Control of  AIDS, (2018) accessed 2nd March 2021 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Health and Hygiene CDS Group and National Development in Nigeria 
55 
 
FMYD (2013a): 2013 Ministerial Platform Presentation: Mid-Term 
Report of the Ministry of Youth Development, Abuja: Federal 
Ministry of Youth Development, Nigeria.  
Frankish, CJ et al. "Health Impact Assessment as a Tool for Population 
Health Promotion and  Public Policy" Vancouver: Institute of 
Health Promotion Research, University of  British  Columbia, 
2016. Retrieved 2021-3-02). 
Iwu, R. U, Onoja A. I, Oguwuike, T. U, Ogwo, V. O & Egerouh, Sanitary 
Status of Urban Settlement: Implication for Tropical Diseases 
Control in Nigeria (A.I Department of Biology AlvanIkoku 
Federal College Education, Owerri, Imo State, Nigeria. 2014). 
McMichael, A J, 2014 “Environmental and Social Influence on Emerging 
Infectious Diseases: Past, Present and Future.” The Royal 
Society 359: 1049-1058 accessed 19 June 2017. 
Michael “European diseases left a genetic mark on Native Americans” 
Nov. 15, 2016 
National Youth Service Corps.(2015). “ABCs of Community 
Development Service”. NYSC  
 National Headquarters, Abuja: Press and Publicity Unit.  
National Youth Service Corps (April, 2016). “Rivers Kopa Magazine”. A 
Bi-annual Publication  of Press and Public Relations Unit, NYSC 
Rivers State. 
National Youth Service Corps.“Objectives of the Scheme”. Accessed on 
26 thFebruary, 2021 from NYSC Official Website: 
http://www.nysc.gov.ng/objectives.php 
NYSC (2014): NYSC Magazine, The Journal of NYSC Directorate 
Headquarters. Abuja:  National Youth Service Corps Service. 
NYSC (2016): NYSC Magazine, The Journal of NYSC Directorate 
Headquarters. Abuja:  National Youth Service Corps Service. 
Obadare, Ebenezer (2015). Statism, Youth and Civic Imagination: A 
Critical Study of The  National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), 
Centre for Civil Society, Old Building,  Houghton Street, 
London.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                          N. M. Promise  
56 
Sir-Kenayo (2016). “Ogun Corpers: Operation Keep Ota Clean CDS 
Projects in Pictures”.  Accessed from 
http://www.sirkenayo.com/ogun-corpers-operation-keep-ota-
clean-cds-projects-in-pictures/accessed on 3rd March 2021 
UNICEF (2016).Sanitation, Hygiene and Water Supply in Urban Slums. 
U.S. Government General Accounting Office (2001, p.2). 
World Malaria Report, 2015 accessed 7th March 2021. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and HIV/Aids: An Assessment of NYSC Sensitisation Campaign... 
57 
 
 44 44    
    NYSC and HIV/Aids: An Assessment of NYSC 
Sensitisation Campaign against HIV/Aids 
 
 
Ayodele Christian 
 
 
Introduction 
Nigerian youths have been leading the call in the fight against 
HIV/AIDS, using the paraphernalia of knowledge dissemination in 
every nook and crannies of the society they found themselves, mostly 
through their respective community development services groups. The 
National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) through various sensitization 
programmes and HIV/AIDS CDS has stood out overtime in the aspect of 
information dissemination and awareness creation, mostly on ways to 
prevent the dreaded diseases, and ways to live with it when infected. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                               Ayodele Christian 
58 
 
Using knowledge as their main operational tool, they were able to take 
their campaigns not only to the classrooms but also to the streets. 
The National Youth Service Corps is a compulsory one year national 
programme for graduates of tertiary institutions across the country 
since 1973. It is pertinent to also note that, the NYSC also in 
partnership with the UNICEF, UNAIDS, International HIV/AIDS Alliance 
and other local Non-governmental organisations like Project HOPE, The 
Positive Action for Treatment Access (PATA), Twinning for Health 
Support Initiative, Nigeria (THSI), Society for Family Health (SFH) 
among others, all in Nigeria have worked together to avert and combat 
the HIV/AIDS menace since 2003. Volunteers from these groups are 
created as they engaged in creating awareness and bringing valuable 
life-saving skills to the various communities they were posted to. 
This work therefore is an attempt to examine the NYSC and HIV/AIDS 
advocacy programmes in Nigeria. The work is divided into seven 
sections; the introduction, clarification of terminologies, the third 
section covers community mobilization for HIV/AIDS prevention, 
section four discusses the background to the establishment of the 
NYSC, section five discusses the role of NYSC in HIV/AIDS sensitization 
and campaign, section six examines the impact of NYSC sensitization 
and campaign on the people and finally, section seven gives suggestion 
in curbing the spread of HIV/AIDS and conclusion. 
 
Conceptual Clarification 
HIV/AIDS: HIV is the acronym for Human Immunodeficiency Virus, an 
infection that attacks the body’s immune system, specifically the white 
blood cells called the CD4 cells. HIV destroys these cells, weakening a 
person’s immunity against infections such as tuberculosis, cancer 
among others. AIDS is the advance stage of HIV and it stands for 
Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome. The World Health Organization 
recommends that every person who may be at risk of HIV should access 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and HIV/Aids: An Assessment of NYSC Sensitisation Campaign... 
59 
 
testing. People diagnosed with HIV should be offered and linked to 
antiretroviral treatment as soon as possible following diagnosis. If 
taken consistently, this treatment also prevents HIV from progressing 
into AIDS and transmission to others.1 
 
Community Development Services: Community Development Service 
(CDS) is one of the four (4) Cardinal Programmes of NYSC in which 
Corps members contribute positively to the development of their host 
communities throughout the period of national service. Since its 
creation in 1973, the National Youth Service Corps has been making 
great contributions in the social, political and economic transformation 
of the nation. In recent times, the Scheme has being the vanguard of the 
nation's drive to correct the imbalance in our rural-urban development 
through various community development programmes executed by 
Corps members. These programmes have revolutionized our 
communities in the areas of education, health care delivery, agriculture, 
communication, infrastructure, technology, economic empowerment, 
poverty eradication, social services and above all national 
consciousness and socio-cultural regeneration.2 
 
Advocacy: Advocacy is an activity by an individual or group that aims 
to influence decisions within political, economic, and social institutions. 
Advocacy includes activities and publications that influence public 
policy, laws and budget by using facts, their relationships, the media 
and message to educate government officials and the public. Advocacy 
can include many activities that a person or organization commences 
                                                           1“HIV/AIDS” https://www.who.int/health-topics/hiv-aids#tab=tab_1. Accessed 
8/3/2021. 2  “ABC” OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT SERVICE” NYSC, NDHQ Abuja, October 
2014. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                               Ayodele Christian 
60 
 
which includes media campaigns, public speaking, commissioning and 
publishing research.3 
Health: The current World Health Organization’s definition of health 
was formulated in 1948 and it defines health as “a state of complete 
physical, mental and social well-being and not merely the absence of 
disease or infirmity.” This definition was ground breaking as its wide 
connotation and all implying. It overcame the negative definition of 
health as absence of disease and included the physical, mental, and 
social domains.4 
 
Community Mobilization for HIV Prevention: The African 
Perspective 
Community mobilizing strategies, designed to engage and galvanize 
community members to take action towards achieving a common goal 
are increasingly recognized as essential components of HIV prevention 
programs. In the area of HIV prevention, community mobilizing 
interventions have recorded successes in increasing the use of 
condoms, improving service access and quality, increasing social 
cohesion and most recently in encouraging the uptake of HIV 
counselling and testing in the society. Beyond these demonstrated 
successes, community mobilization (CM) has played a key role in 
effective implementation of key bio-medical interventions for the 
future. For example, landmark trials have demonstrated the efficacy of 
early antiretroviral treatment (ART) for HIV positive individuals to 
prevent transmission to uninfected partners and providing ARTs to 
high risk HIV negative individuals to prevent contraction of the virus.5 
                                                           3J.A. Obar, “An Analysis of How Advocacy GROUPS IN THE United States Percieve 
and Use Social Media as Tools for Facilitating  4M. Huber, H. Hurst and L. Green, “How Should we Define Health” BMJ Online 
Journal, 343 (2011): 1 accessed December 15, 2019. 5 S.A. Lippman, S. Maman, C. MacPhail, R. Twine, D. Peacock, K. Kahn, & A.Pettifor, 
Conceptualizing community mobilization for HIV prevention: implications for HIV 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and HIV/Aids: An Assessment of NYSC Sensitisation Campaign... 
61 
 
The success of ‘treatment-as-prevention’ approach hinges on 
developing CM strategies to inspire broad support for care and 
treatment for those living with or at elevated risk of HIV/AIDS, their 
family and community. Unleashing the potential of community 
mobilization for HIV prevention is particularly critical in sub-Saharan 
Africa, which accounts for approximately 70% of the global HIV 
infections. Community mobilization interventions to prevent HIV have 
varied widely in tactics and focus.6 A number of CM efforts have 
included components that address the larger social and structural 
context surrounding HIV, including efforts to reduce discrimination and 
stigmatization of people living with HIV/AIDS; to create social cohesion 
and extend social networks for disadvantaged communities; and to 
ensure community participation in prevention and care programmes.7 
The best known HIV prevention mobilizing effort was undertaken by 
sex workers in Sonagachi (Kolkata), India. Over 15 years of HIV 
prevention mobilizing efforts resulted in increase in condom use 
among sex workers while new cases of HIV contraction declined and 
remained low in Kolkata as compared to sex workers in other Indian 
cities. The basic components of the Sonagachi Project included the 
establishment of quality STI/HIV testing and treatment clinics; 
facilitated access to condoms; training of peer outreach workers, who 
over time became leaders for collective actions; political advocacy and 
formation of broad partnerships; founding of a literacy program and a 
                                                                                                                                       
prevention programming in the African context. PloS one, 8 (10), e78208, 
(2013).https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0078208 6World Health Organisation (WHO), A Conceptual Framework for Action on the 
Social Determinants of Health: Debates, Policy & Practice, Case Studies, Social 
Determinants of Health Discussion Paper 2, World Health Organization Geneva, 
2010. 7World Health Organisation (WHO), A Conceptual Framework for Action on the 
Social Determinants of Health: Debates, Policy & Practice, Case Studies, Social 
Determinants of Health Discussion Paper 2, World Health Organization Geneva, 
2010. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                               Ayodele Christian 
62 
 
loan service program at a credit union; and the establishment of an 
organization to oversee the various efforts. While the Sonagachi 
Initiative evolved into a community-led program, constantly adapting 
to respond to local needs and opportunities, other mobilizing projects 
have included community participation but largely remained externally 
run interventions with prescribed components. Project ACCEPT (HPTN 
043), for example, was an NIH (National Institute of Health) funded 
multi-site randomized community trial that aimed to change 
community norms and reduce risk for HIV infection through 
community based HIV counselling and testing, community outreach, 
and post-test support. The seven major community mobilization 
(outreach) strategies used in Project Accept included: forging stake 
holder buy-in, formation of community coalitions, community 
engagement, community participation, raising community awareness, 
involvement of leaders, and partnership building. Results from ACCEPT 
indicate that mobilizing communities around HIV testing drastically 
improved testing uptake and may have lowered the rate of new HIV 
infections, particularly among women 24-35 years of age.8 
The experiences in Sonagachi represent examples of successful 
mobilization initiatives in practice, yet, there are many efforts that 
apply the term “community mobilization” rather arbitrarily to describe 
activities ranging from peer education to conducting social media 
campaigns. Evans and colleagues have argued that “activities that 
target and aim to empower individual community members should be 
distinguished from community mobilization efforts which seek to 
construct a collective entity out of a group of individuals.” Most 
mobilizing projects have failed to make this distinction or explicitly 
focus on community change; others fail to describe what the process of 
                                                           8S.A. Lippman, S. Maman, C. Mac Phail, R. Twine, D. Peacock, K. Kahn, & A. 
Pettifor…. 2010 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and HIV/Aids: An Assessment of NYSC Sensitisation Campaign... 
63 
 
mobilization around HIV prevention entails; fewer still have elaborated 
on the underlying theory guiding the selection of activities. Currently 
there is widespread buy-in for community mobilization and yet very 
little published work that lays a conceptual foundation for how to 
mobilize communities around HIV prevention and no consensus 
around the core components of mobilizing. Most practical guides for 
CM in public health (including, but not limited to HIV prevention) come 
from larger international institutions’ resources for community-based 
work, including publications from UNAIDS, WHO, and CDC. Some 
resource guides are quite substantial; others are helpful in that they lay 
out recommendations for activities. However, they are also largely 
theoretical and pay little attention to contextual factors that play a 
large role in successes and failures.9 
 
The Role of NYSC in HIV/AIDS Sensitization and Campaign 
When HIV/AIDS was first diagnosed in Nigeria in the early 1980s, the 
country embarked on health-focused initiatives to combat the 
epidemic. However, the rapid and alarming spread of the epidemic 
which saw the prevalence rate rise from 1.8% in 1998 to 5.8% in 2001 
caused the government to redirect mechanisms and strategies to 
prevent the spread, mitigate its consequences and provide care and 
support for people who have contracted the disease.10 In this regard, 
education, creation of awareness and sensitization has been identified 
as the critical means for achieving change in the society. 
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) is one of the major youth 
platforms for the advocacy campaign against HIV/AIDS. NYSC has 
played a significant role in the sensitization and fight against HIV 
infections. This sensitization started during the 21-Days Orientation 
Camp in the various states of the federation. The camping is to train 
                                                           9S.A. Lippman, S. Maman, C. Mac Phail, R. Twine… 
10 NYSC, NYSC Magazine, The Journal of NYSC Directorate Headquarters. Abuja: 
National Youth Service Corps Service. (2014) 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                               Ayodele Christian 
64 
 
and prepare the Nigerian youths for national service or national 
assignment. Apart from the other activities like parade, seminars were 
organised by NGOs and other officials to sensitize the youths on the 
risk of HIV and the need to always use preventive measures such as 
condoms and abstinence from pre-marital sex. This seminar usually 
ends with the recruitment of Corps members who are interested in 
joining the fight against HIV/AIDs. These seminars sensitize the Corps 
members on the HIV/AIDS risk and prevention and also prepare them 
to sensitize the general public in their various places of primary 
assignments. Through the Community Development Service (CDS), 
members of the Service Corps worked with the local communities to 
promote self-reliance by systematically prospecting and executing 
development projects and programmes which impact positively on the 
socio-economic development of the host communities.11  
The CDS component of NYSC is classified into different CDS Groups, 
Personal CDS and Collaborative CDS. NYSC Corps have through these 
different CDS groups played the advocacy role in the sensitization of 
the public on HIV/AIDs, stigmatization and reproductive health.  
Akume et al (2012: 106) asserts that:  
“The CDS requires that Corps members use their 
acquired skills to provide services like education, 
health care delivery, rural infrastructural and 
community development, agriculture, science and 
technology, and enlightenment campaign for the 
benefit of their host community… As such, ensuring the 
success of the CDS imposes on the Corps members to 
wear a spirit coated with dedication and enthusiasm 
                                                           11Akume, A.T., Solomon, M. Mohammed, O.A., Conflict, the NYSC Programme and 
the Question of Policy Relevance in Present Day Nigeria: An Assessment. In, 
Abdulrahman, D.A., Ogundiya, I.S. Garba, T., Dankani, I.M. (eds.), 50years of 
Nigeria’s Nationhood: Issues and Challenges for Sustainable Development. Ibadan: 
Crown F. Publishers. (2012), P. 106 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and HIV/Aids: An Assessment of NYSC Sensitisation Campaign... 
65 
 
irrespective of the challenges they might face in so far 
as they are not life threatening”.12 
 
Collaborative CDS such as Reproductive Health & HIV/AIDs Group, and 
Medical and Health Services Group (Red Cross, Breast Without Spot, 
Polio Plus, Sexual Health etc.), among others, partner with National and 
Non-Governmental organizations and other establishments to 
implement development programmes and campaign against diseases 
such as HIV/AID.  For instance, the Reproductive Health & HIV/AIDS 
Group CDS has its aim of training and mentoring students either in 
tertiary, secondary or primary institutions on HIV/AIDs prevention and 
stigmatization. The CDS also mobilize and strengthen community based 
responses on HIV/AIDS prevention as well as sensitization and 
campaigns in their place of primary assignments (PPAs).  
According to UNAIDS Global, HIV/AIDS prevention campaign 
supporting materials include leaflets, booklets, pamphlets, audio and 
video messages to target audiences. These materials are useful for 
following reasons. (a) It makes the message highly understandable for 
targeted audience. (b) It provides details that are not elaborated on in 
the message. (c) It helps both the service providers and the patients. 
Indeed, Corps members play relevant roles in sensitization and 
campaigns against HIV/AIDs, there have been the issues of funding of 
CDS projects. The funding is usually a shared responsibility of the 
community, government and stakeholders. The funds for the 
campaigns and awareness rallies as well as seminars are sourced 
through corporate or Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs), 
philanthropists, government agencies, public spirited individuals in the 
community, political office holders or representatives, etc. Also Corps 
members in their places of primary assignments especially in 
                                                           12UNAIDS Global, Global HIV & AIDS statistics — 2020 fact sheet, accessed at 16th 
March, 2020, https://www.unaids.org/en/resources/fact-sheet 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                               Ayodele Christian 
66 
 
secondary and primary schools often play significant roles in the 
sensitization and campaigns about HIV/AIDS. The Corps members 
usually organize events like seminars, public advice and interpersonal 
counselling and sensitization against HIV epidemic. They often organize 
or resuscitate Anti-HIV/AIDs club in the schools.13 
According to an oral interview with Abubakar Ya’u, a Corps member in 
Kaduna, he noted that: 
When I was posted to a secondary school in Kaduna 
South Local government area, with the renewed 
interest in the fight against HIV which was kindled 
from the orientation camp, I partnered with a local 
NGO (Action Against Aid) to organize a seminar on 
HIV/AIDS prevention and subsequently started an anti 
HIV/AIDS club in the school. This gave me a sense of 
fulfillment.14 
 
One of the most effective campaigns methods against HIV sensitization 
is through interpersonal communication. According to Hannan15 
Interpersonal communication is the most effective 
means in influencing the behavior of an individual or a 
small group of people because of following reasons. 
(a)Message is delivered by a person who belongs to 
that particular group to whom message is constructed 
(opinion leader influence). and 
                                                           13Amos, V. “Role of the National Youth Service Corps on National Development”. 
Accessed from The Ink Newspaper Online: 
http://theinknewspaper.blogspot.co.ke./2015/09/role-of-national-youth-service-
Corps.html?m=1, (September 3rd, 2015). 14Oral Interview with AbubakarYa’u, age 24+, A Corp Serving at Kachia LGA, 
Kaduna, on 11th March, 2021 15Hannan, A.M. (ed.), Introduction. In, Youth Service in Comparative Perspective, 
CSD Monograph No. 09-04. St Louis: Global Service Institute: Center for Social 
Development. (2003: 23) 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and HIV/Aids: An Assessment of NYSC Sensitisation Campaign... 
67 
 
(b) Content of message is more harmonized with local 
culture, tradition, norms and values. For instance, the 
NYSC reproductive Health & HIV/AIDS CDS’ target 
audience for HIV/AIDS prevention campaign are 
students, sex workers, truck drivers, transvestites, drug 
users exchanging needles for injecting drugs, women, 
intelligentsia [as opinion leaders] and the other 
vulnerable youths To sum up, the effective 
communication campaigns can play significant roles in 
preventing HIV/AIDS by providing  
(1)  a forum of discussion and communication,  
(2)  Creating supportive environment for positive 
behavior change,  
(3)  Creating knowledge about the services 
available in target population area,  
(4)  Mainstreaming and putting HIV/AIDS on the 
news agenda,  
(5)  Social mobilization with the help of opinion 
leaders, and  
(6)  Sharing resources and capacity building 
especially partnerships with the government 
departments, NGOs and media outlets etc.16  
In view of the rapid rate of HIV infection, its severe socioeconomic and 
demographic effects in affected populations and the predominant mode 
of transmission through sexual intercourse, a change of sexual behavior 
is the most important and appropriate prevention strategy.17  However, 
                                                           16Hannan, A.M. (ed.), Introduction. In, Youth Service in Comparative Perspective… 
17E.M. Ankrah, and C.B. Rwabukwali. Knowledge, Attitude and Practice Study of 
School Health Education: Implications for AIDS Control. Kampala, Uganda, UNICEF 
Uganda, 1987. See also N. Ayiga, J.P. Ntozi, F.E. Ahimbisibweet al. “Deaths, Testing 
and Sexual Behavioral Change And Its Determinants in Northern Uganda”, in 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                               Ayodele Christian 
68 
 
due to the COVID-19 pandemic in late 2019 through 2021, NYSC 
advocacy programmes on HIV/AIDS were paused. This is because of 
the intensity of the Covid-19 pandemic.  
HIV/AIDS presents a challenge for behaviour-change programmes. Past 
behaviour-change interventions seemed to assume that sex is a simple 
mechanical act onto which abstinence, mutual fidelity or condom use 
could be imposed. However, when the external factors of gender 
inequality, poverty, migration and high rates of sexually transmitted 
infections (STIs) are brought together with physical and psychological 
factors unique to each human being, such as hormonal activity, age and 
self-confidence, it becomes clear that sexual activity is a highly complex 
phenomenon. Today, sexual and reproductive health programmes 
cannot be effective without integrating HIV/AIDS prevention. Similarly, 
effective HIV/AIDS prevention cannot be achieved if education 
programmes do not include wider aspects of sexual and reproductive 
health. However, given that sexual activity is driven by a wide range of 
factors, it is likely that that long-term, consistent behaviour change 
requires not only deep-rooted psychological conviction on behalf of the 
individual but also broader social change, including poverty alleviation 
and gender equality.18 
Poverty and HIV/AIDS are closely linked. At national and community 
levels, poverty prevents the establishment of needed prevention, care, 
support and treatment programmes. Poverty also reduces access to 
information, education and services that could reduce the spread of the 
virus. At an individual and household level, income and poverty often 
forces women, and some men, into sexual situations they would not 
                                                                                                                                       
Resistances to BehavioralChange to Reduce HIV/AIDS Edited by JC Caldwell et al. 
Canberra, Australian National University, Health Transition Center, 1999. 18S. Agha, “The Impact of a Mass Media Campaign on Personal Risk Perception, 
Perceived Self-Efficacy and on Other Behavioral Predictors.” AIDS Care 15 (6), 
2003, Pp. 749–62. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and HIV/Aids: An Assessment of NYSC Sensitisation Campaign... 
69 
 
otherwise choose. Poverty may also be associated with migration, both 
within and outside a country. Studies have identified certain categories 
of migrants as high risked or vulnerable groups.19 
 
Treatment and care for the HIV virus 
With the development of anti-retroviral drugs such as AZT, which 
reduce viral load and delay the progression from HIV infection to AIDS, 
the disease need no longer be an automatic death sentence. However, 
because of the high cost of these drugs, few Africans living with 
HIV/AIDS can afford to buy them. In this regard, recent developments 
have opened a window of hope. Intensive negotiations and pressure 
from HIV/AIDS advocacy groups which have led pharmaceutical 
companies to reduce drastically the price of anti-retroviral drugs and to 
ease their opposition to the importation of cheaper generic versions of 
drugs they have patented. However, other obstacles to widespread 
distribution remain; weak health infrastructures and the shortage of 
skilled medical personnel to prescribe the drugs and monitor their 
impact are likely to minimize the impact of these promising 
developments. In the short term, therefore, treatment options in Africa 
are likely to be limited largely to palliative treatment and the treatment 
of opportunistic infections, such as tuberculosis. In the poorer 
countries and among poorer peoples, access to even these forms of 
treatment is limited.20 
As the HIV/AIDS epidemic grows and manifests itself in widespread 
morbidity and mortality, its impact is felt on individuals, households 
and communities. It imposes heavy burden of care and support on 
individuals and families. The burden on the larger society is no less 
                                                           19T. Marcus, ‘Crafting in the Context of AIDS and Rural Poverty: A Livelihood 
Strategy with Prospects’, Transformation, (2000), P. 44. 20Martha Ainsworth and Waranya Teokul, “Breaking the Silence: Setting Realistic 
Priorities for AIDS Control in Less-Developed Countries”, The Lancet, 356, Issue, 
1992 . 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                               Ayodele Christian 
70 
 
traumatic. An increasing number of orphans, single-parent or no-
parent households and costly funerals strain community resources. In 
response, a broad range of innovative care and support mechanisms 
has been tried in many countries. Many approaches are community-
based, calling upon traditional African social solidarity and mutual 
support systems. Home-based care for sick relatives is at the heart of 
these initiatives. Programmes to integrate AIDS orphans into extended 
families and other existing community solidarity networks (as opposed 
to creating orphanages) are Proliferating. It has been observed that 
women and girls bear the brunt of care and support, as many cultures 
assign to them the role of caregiver and comforter.21 
To make impact, there is the need to improve the capacity of society to 
halt and reduce further spread of the virus as well as to provide 
necessary support to surviving family members. The agenda for 
addressing impacts has several components. The first step is to 
estimate levels of human resource loss over time. Second, these 
estimates need to be equally incorporated into macroeconomic and 
into sector planning. A third step is to search for ways to reduce the 
impact, for instance, through substitution, reorganization of work or 
investment in time-saving devices. On the other hand, Traditional 
practices such as widow inheritance and the subordination of women’s 
interests to those of men play a role in the further spread of the virus 
one of the most frustrating aspects of the fight against HIV/AIDS is the 
shortage of financial resources to carry out programmes and actions 
that are known to be beneficial. Due to inadequate funding, HIV/AIDS is 
becoming a disease of poor people, poor communities and poor 
countries.22 
 
                                                           21Robert Hecht (UNAIDS), “Poverty, Debt, and AIDS: Mainstreaming the Epidemic 
and Mobilizing Additional Resources to the Response”, Meeting of Ministers of 
Health of the OAU on HIV/AIDS, Ouagadougou, 7-9 May 2000, pp.167-175. 22 Robert Hecht (UNAIDS), “Poverty, Debt, and AIDS: Mainstreaming…, 2000. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and HIV/Aids: An Assessment of NYSC Sensitisation Campaign... 
71 
 
The Impact of NYSC on Sensitization and Campaign 
Research has shown that Students exposed to training from Corps 
members are better informed than other students on ways of 
contracting HIV/AIDS, passing on the virus and reducing the risk of 
becoming infected with HIV/AIDS virus. Some students have never 
been tested for HIV or the AIDS virus, while others want to be tested 
but students exposed to the training of Corps members showed better 
attitudes towards people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA).23 
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), in collaboration with UNICEF 
in 2002 introduced a Peer Education Programme termed “Empowering 
Youth through Young People.” The objective was to reach new 
graduates of universities serving the one-year compulsory NYSC 
Programme with reproductive health and HIV/AIDS messages and also 
train some of them to be trainers of peer educators in and out of 
schools. Three groups of Corps members were deployed to the target 
communities and lived and worked in them for the planned periods.24 
 
Suggestions to curb the spread of HIV/AIDS 
Adults are generally working during the day and the schools are poorly 
resourced, the Corps members quickly took up the role of leading peer 
education activities in schools. While the utilization of Corps members 
appears successful it should be noted that their effective involvement 
requires a significant amount of dedicated management time, in terms 
of providing technical support, group communication and, at times, 
providing pastoral care.25 
                                                           23S.T. Abdulazeez, “Importance of National Youth Service”. KwaraKopa Magazine. 
Batch A. NYSC Kwara: Press and Public Relations Unit, 2015 24A.A. Ladele, and O.A. Olaniyan. Perceived Effectiveness of the Community 
Development Service of the National Youths Service Corps Scheme in Host 
Communities in Osun State.CYIAP Network Conference FUTA, 2015. 25 USAIDS.HIV in the Developing World: Maps. USAID Washington DC, 2001. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                               Ayodele Christian 
72 
 
Sexuality education and AIDS counseling prevention and control 
programmes should be intensified for young people in Nigerian 
colleges and universities. Focus group discussions on dating, partner 
communication, sexual decision-making and STD/HIV were conducted 
with female students at the University of Ibadan. Current Statistics 
shows that the HIV/AIDS epidemic in Nigeria has assumed alarming 
proportions. Those worst hit are age 15-49 years and of whom about 
2.6 million are already positive. In spite of the current efforts to reduce 
the rate of infection many Nigerians do not appear to consider the 
epidemic a serious problem and are therefore not taking enough 
precautionary measures to avoid infections.26 
The poor attitudes to precautionary measures portend a lot of dangers 
for the country’s efforts toward reducing/eradicating the HIV/AIDS 
epidemic. Beyond lip service, concrete avenues should be provided 
within the churches and mosques to improve counselling services, and 
also provide adequate information on the causes and consequences of 
reproductive health issues. 
The use of non-formal strategies (Peer Education, Anti-AIDS, Drama, 
Art, Youth Dialogues, Music, Comic Books) has helped in curbing the 
spread of the epidemic. The Education Sector lacks adequate 
information, data, impact studies, researches, and others to enable it 
intervene effectively.27 
Source of financing a CDS project is the most serious issue Corps 
members battle with whenever the issue of project comes in especially 
with the policy of NYSC that disagrees with any form of personal 
spending of Corps member’s personal money to sponsor a CDS project. 
                                                           26 Agha S. “The Impact of a Mass Media Campaign on Personal Risk Perception, 
Perceived Self-Efficacy and on Other Behavioral Predictors.” AIDS Care 15 (6), 
2003, Pp. 749–62. 27NYSC.A Compendium of the National Youth Service Corps Scheme Ten Years of 
Service to the Nation.Lagos: NYSC Directorate Headquarters. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and HIV/Aids: An Assessment of NYSC Sensitisation Campaign... 
73 
 
Sponsorship is actually a critical issue as they have to go from 
organisation to organisation or from individual to individual after 
getting an approval from the management of NYSC. In commercial 
states like Lagos, Corps members may find sponsors easily compared to 
government dependent states like Yobe and Gombe states. Again, states 
where Non-Governmental Organisations are sound, Corps members 
whose CDS project is relevant to the activity of such NGO may find 
sponsorship easily as in the case of Oyediran Igbabosanmi Israel, a 
Corps member who distributed over 400 educational materials to 
children of Kings Technology Academy, Nongov community, Buruku 
LGA, Benue State on 28th May, 2012 which was sponsored by a United 
States’ based NGO, Millions4One.28 
 
Conclusion 
Health is an important determinant of a nation’s progress and 
development. The contributions of Corps members to health awareness 
creation in modern times cannot be overemphasized. The role of NYSC 
in awareness creation and sensitization is worthy to become an 
academic topic. The HIV/AIDS and reproductive health community 
development service which is an integral part of the NYSC CDS has 
been instrumental in carrying out sensitization and campaigns, not 
only to the local communities but also to secondary schools and they 
serve as trainers of peer educators in and out of schools. This work 
found out that: due to the growing numbers of people contracting the 
virus, the essence of Corps members participation becomes paramount 
to the people especially on sensitization and campaigns. And this has 
also aided intercommunication between HIV/AIDS victims and the 
Corps members. 
 
                                                           
 28  D.O. Arubay, Youth in Development: Understanding the Contributions of the 
National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) to National Development (PhD Thesis. 
University of Manchester) 2015. P23 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                               Ayodele Christian 
74 
 
Bibliography 
 
“HIV/AIDS” https://www.who.int/health-topics/hiv-aids#tab=tab_1. 
Accessed 8/3/2021. 
A. A. Ladele, and O. A. Olaniyan. Perceived Effectiveness of the 
Community Development Service of the National Youths Service 
Corps Scheme in Host Communities in Osun State. CYIAP 
Network Conference FUTA, 2015. 
Agha S. “The Impact of a Mass Media Campaign on Personal Risk 
Perception, Perceived Self-Efficacy and on Other Behavioral 
Predictors.” AIDS Care 15 (6), 2003,Pp. 749–62. 
Akume, A.T., Solomon, M. Mohammed, O.A., Conflict, the NYSC 
Programme and the Question of Policy Relevance in Present 
Day Nigeria: An Assessment. In, Abdulrahman, D. A., Ogundiya, 
I.S. Garba, T., Dankani, I.M. (eds.),50years of Nigeria’s 
Nationhood: Issues and Challenges for Sustainable Development. 
Ibadan: Crown F. Publishers. (2012), P. 106 
Amos, V. “Role of the National Youth Service Corps on National 
Development”. Accessed from The Ink Newspaper Online: 
http://theinknewspaper.blogspot.co.ke./2015/09/role-of-
national-youth-service-Corps.html?m=1, (September 3rd, 
2015). 
C.O. Aniche and D. Odukoya “HIV/AIDS and the Education Sector… 
D.O. Arubay, Youth in Development: Understanding the Contributions of 
the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) to National 
Development (PhD Thesis. University of Manchester) 2015. P. 
23 
D.O. Arubay, Youth in Development: Understanding the Contributions of 
the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) to National 
Development(PhD Thesis. University of Manchester) 2015. P23 
E.M. Ankrah, and C.B. Rwabukwali. Knowledge, Attitude and Practice 
Study of School Health Education: Implications for AIDS Control. 
Kampala, Uganda, UNICEF Uganda, 1987. See also N. Ayiga, J.P. 
Ntozi, F.E. Ahimbisibweet al. “Deaths, Testing and Sexual 
Behavioral Change And Its Determinants in Northern Uganda”, 
in Resistances to Behavioral Change to Reduce HIV/AIDS Edited 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and HIV/Aids: An Assessment of NYSC Sensitisation Campaign... 
75 
 
by JC Caldwell et al. Canberra, Australian National University, 
Health Transition Center, 1999. 
G. Enegwea and G. Umoden, NYSC: Twenty years of National Service, 
Lagos: Gabumo Publishers C o. Ltd., 1993, Pp. 11-12. 
G. Enegwea and G. Umoden, NYSC… 1993, P. 12. 
Hannan, A.M. (ed.), Introduction. In, Youth Service in Comparative 
Perspective, CSD Monograph No. 09-04. St Louis: Global Service 
Institute: Center for Social Development. (2003: 23) 
Hannan, A.M. (ed.), Introduction. In, Youth Service in Comparative 
Perspective… 
Hannan, A.M. (ed.), Introduction. In, Youth Service in Comparative 
Perspective… 
J.A. Obar, “An Analysis of How Advocacy Groups in the United States 
Perceive and Use Social Media as Tools for Facilitating Civic 
Engagement and Collective Action, Journal Of Information Policy 
2 (2012): 1-25 
M. Huber, H. Hurst and L. Green, “How Should We Define Health” BMJ 
Online Journal, 343 (2011): 1 accessed December 15, 2019. 
Martha Ainsworth and Waranya Teokul, “Breaking the Silence: Setting 
Realistic Priorities for AIDS Control in Less-Developed 
Countries”, The Lancet, 356, Issue,1992. 
NYSC “ABC” of Community Development Service” NYSC, NDHQ Abuja, 
October 2014. 
NYSC, NYSC Magazine, The Journal of NYSC Directorate Headquarters. 
Abuja: National Youth Service Corps Service. (2014) 
NYSC.A Compendium of the National Youth Service Corps Scheme Ten 
Years of Service to the Nation. Lagos: NYSC Directorate 
Headquarters. 
Oral Interview with Abubakar Ya’u, age 24+,  A Corp Serving at Kachia 
LGA, Kaduna, on 24th February, 2021. 
Robert Hecht (UNAIDS), “Poverty, Debt, and AIDS: Mainstreaming the 
Epidemic and Mobilizing Additional Resources to the 
Response”, Meeting of Ministers of Health of the OAU on 
HIV/AIDS, Ouagadougou, 7-9 May 2000, pp.167-175. 
Robert Hecht (UNAIDS), “Poverty, Debt, and AIDS: Mainstreaming…, 
2000. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                               Ayodele Christian 
76 
 
S. Agha, “The Impact of a Mass Media Campaign on Personal Risk 
Perception, Perceived Self-Efficacy and on Other Behavioral 
Predictors.” AIDS Care 15 (6), 2003,Pp. 749–62. 
S. A. Lippman, S. Maman, C. MacPhail, R. Twine, D. Peacock, K. Kahn, & 
A. Pettifor, Conceptualizing community mobilization for HIV 
prevention: implications for HIV prevention programming in 
the African context. PloS one, 8 (10), e78208, (2013). 
https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0078208 
S. A. Lippman, S. Maman, C. MacPhail, R. Twine, D. Peacock, K. Kahn, & 
A. Pettifor…. 2010 
S.T. Abdulazeez, “Importance of National Youth Service”. Kwara Kopa 
Magazine. Batch A. NYSC Kwara: Press and Public Relations 
Unit, 2015. 
T. Marcus, ‘Crafting in the Context of AIDS and Rural Poverty: A 
Livelihood Strategy with Prospects’, Transformation, (2000),P. 
44 
UNAIDS Global, Global HIV & AIDS statistics — 2020 fact sheet, 
accessed at 16 th March, 2020, 
https://www.unaids.org/en/resources/fact-sheet 
USAIDS.HIV in the Developing World: Maps. USAID Washington DC, 
2001. 
World Health Organisation (WHO), A Conceptual Framework for Action 
on the Social Determinants of Health: Debates, Policy & 
Practice, Case Studies, Social Determinants of Health Discussion 
Paper 2, World Health Organization Geneva, 2010. 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the HIV/AIDS Advocacy Programme, 1986 – 2020 
77 
 
    55 55    
    NYSC and the HIV/AIDS Advocacy Programme, 
1986 – 2020 
 
 
Orafa Stephen Tersoo 
. 
 
Introduction 
Humanity has witnessed and grappled with several kinds of afflictions 
and disease epidemics in different parts of the world over time.1 Some 
of the prominent disease epidemics in human history include Black 
Death, Influenza, Bubonic Plague, Ebola, Smallpox, Cholera, Malaria, 
                                                           1 G. J. Stine, AIDS Update 2000: An Annual Overview of Aquired  Immune 
Deficiency Syndrome,  New Jersey, Prentice Hall, 2000, pp. 2 – 3. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                             O. S. Tersoo 
78 
 
Measles, Polio, Typhus, Tuberculosis2 and Corona-Virus (COVID-19) 
amongst many others. These disease epidemics have had seismic 
impact on the population, industries, socio-cultural, economic and 
political development of all human groups. The Acquired Immune 
Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) which is the final stage of the Human 
Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) entered the global stage since the turn 
of the 1980s and has defied effective cure up to date. The HIV/AIDS has 
killed more than 45 million people, orphaned about 3.8 million children 
worldwide and has been described as the king of all plagues in history.3 
The deleterious impacts of HIV/AIDS on the human society have 
spurred different interventionist strategies from individuals, groups, 
Civil Society Organizations (CSOs) and government agencies such as 
the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC).  
The purpose of this paper is to interrogate the National Youth Service 
Corps (NYSC)’s interventions to the HIV/AIDS epidemic against the 
backdrop of its intervention strategies, successes, challenges and 
prospects. The paper is organized in six interlocked segments. The first 
isolates and explain in synopsis the history of HIV/AIDS and its impact 
on Nigeria. Here, we would attempt to analyze the impulse that 
stimulated and energize the public concern. This is followed by NYSC’s 
interventions to HIV/AIDS in Nigeria and some of the successes 
recorded by the scheme. The fourth segment examines the challenges 
that have hamstrung the effectiveness of the NYSC interventions to 
HIV/AIDS. This is followed by an analysis of what we consider would be 
                                                           2 A. S. Balogun, “HIV/AIDS Epidemic in the History of Nigeria, 1986 – 2007” in O. 
Akinwumi, et al, eds, Journal of the Historical Society of Nigeria, Vol. 19, Makurdi, 
Aboki Publishers, 2010, p. 166. 3 For exquisite details on the number of people killed and children orphaned by 
HIV/AIDS the world over, read, D. W. Tukura, HIV/AIDS and African Development: 
The Social and Economic Root of an Epidemic, Lagos, Bolabay Publications, 2007, 
p.vii and HIV/AIDS Policy for the Catholic Church in Nigeria with Strategic 
Implementation Framework, Abuja,  Catholic Secretariat of Nigeria(CSN), 2010, 
p.2. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the HIV/AIDS Advocacy Programme, 1986 – 2020 
79 
 
the future dimension and the role this would play in the development 
process. The last segment contains our concluding thoughts. 
 
HIV/AIDS in Nigeria: A Historical Overview of its Emergence and 
Impacts, 1986 – 2020 
The first cases of AIDS the world over were first reported in May 1981 
by Dr. Michael Gottlieb of the Medical school of the University of Los 
Angeles, United States.4 The first victims were five Homosexual men 
who were suffering from an unusual pneumonia called pneumocystis 
carinii pneumonia (PCP) and a rare type of cancer known as Kaposi’s 
sarcoma (Ks). When Dr. Gottlieb reported these unusual pneumonia 
cases, the Centre for Disease control (CDC) in Atlanta, Georgia put 
together a small working group named Task Force on Kaposi’s sarcoma 
and Opportunistic infections (KSOI) under the leadership of Dr. Harold 
Jaffe to find out more about this incident and after series of medical 
investigations, it was determined in the summer of 1981 that an 
epidemic was indeed around.5 
The Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) was first isolated in 1983 
from patients with AIDS-related complex and was initially called 
Human T-lymphotropic Virus type III (HTL – III) in the US, and 
Lymphadenopathy Associated Virus (LAV) in France. The AIDS virus 
was renamed HIV in 1986 when the virus discovered by Robert Gallo in 
the U. S. (HTL – III) and Luc Montagnier in France (LAV) were found to 
be genetically indistinguishable. HIV/AIDS was known in its early years 
as the disease of the Four Hs – Homosexual, Heterosexual, Heroine 
                                                           4 A. S. Balogun, “HIV/AIDS Epidemic in the History of Nigeria, 1986 – 2007” … p. 
166 5 A. S. Balogun, “HIV/AIDS Epidemic in the History of Nigeria, 1986 – 2007” ... 
p.167 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                             O. S. Tersoo 
80 
 
pushers and Haitians (the Haitians were believed to have contacted the 
virus from the Central African region).6 
On the African continent, the first case of HIV/AIDS according to 
Balogun was reported in Uganda, East Africa, in 1982 and before the 
end of the 1980s, it had been reported in most Sub-Saharan African 
countries.7 Today, Sub-Saharan Africa is central to the debates on the 
origin of HIV as many Eurocentric writers have retroactively traced its 
origin to Africa. Apart from this, sub-Saharan Africa is the region worst-
hit by the scourge of HIV/AIDS having the highest number of people 
living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA), AIDS deaths and AIDS orphans.8 In 
contemporary times, HIV/AIDS is a major health and development 
challenge for the continent of Africa and it no longer poses serious 
threat to the developed countries of the world where access to 
antiretroviral is guaranteed and rate of new infections minimized 
drastically.9 
However, the first cases of HIV/AIDS phenomenon in Nigeria were 
identified in 1985 and reported at an international conference in 1986. 
Available evidence suggests that Lagos, the then capital of Nigeria, and 
Enugu, the then Capital City of Anambra recorded the first two cases of 
HIV/AIDS in Nigeria.10 According to the then minister of Health, the 
first two cases included a 13 year old sexually active girl and a female 
commercial sex worker from a neighbouring West African country. This 
shows that youth and women have been at the centre of the HIV/AIDS 
                                                           6 A. S. Balogun, “HIV/AIDS Epidemic in the History of Nigeria, 1986 – 2007” … 
p.167 7 A. S. Balogun, “HIV/AIDS Epidemic in the History of Nigeria, 1986 – 2007” … p. 
167 8 A. S. Balogun, “HIV/AIDS Epidemic in the History of Nigeria, 1986 – 2007” … p. 
167 9 A. S. Balogun, “HIV/AIDS Epidemic in the History of Nigeria, 1986 – 2007” … p. 
167 10 A. S. Balogun, “HIV/AIDS Epidemic in the History of Nigeria, 1986 – 2007” … p. 
167 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the HIV/AIDS Advocacy Programme, 1986 – 2020 
81 
 
phenomenon in Nigeria since the earliest times. Since 1986, the disease 
continued to spread in Nigeria and by 2005, the HIV/AIDS situation in 
Nigeria ranked the country third globally among the countries with the 
highest number of people living with HIV/AIDS.11 
Three major phases are identified in the development of HIV/AIDS 
epidemic in Nigeria. First, there was the era of absolute official and 
personal denial of presence or possible discovery of HIV/AIDS in 
Nigeria (1981 – 1986). The second era is described as the era of AIDS 
skepticism, indifference and misconception (1986 -1997) when people 
were skeptical and indifferent to the presence of HIV/AIDS in Nigeria. 
The third era is the era of AIDS reality and awareness (1997 – date). 
The death of Fela Anikulapo Kuti, one of Nigeria’s finest musicians from 
AIDS-related complications contributed to the acknowledgement by 
most Nigerians of the presence of HIV/AIDS in Nigeria.12 
The HIV/AIDS prevalence by age group from 1986 – 2020 in Nigeria 
showed that HIV/AIDS was more prevalent in the 25 – 29 age groups. 
In terms of sexual distribution, the female had preponderance of HIV in 
Nigeria. Several factors accounted for the higher prevalence of women 
with HIV/AIDS than men. For instance, women were exposed to some 
procedures that can lead to break in skin or vaginal continuity while 
healthy or ill. Apart from these biological disadvantages, other factors 
that made women more vulnerable to HIV/AIDS included high level of 
poverty, lack of proper education, traditional beliefs and other 
activities that contributed to the chances of women contacting HIV 
                                                           11 A. S. Balogun, “HIV/AIDS Epidemic in the History of Nigeria, 1986 – 2007” … p. 
168 12 A. S. Balogun, “HIV/AIDS Epidemic in the History of Nigeria, 1986 – 2007” … p. 
168 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                             O. S. Tersoo 
82 
 
through increase in sex trade, sex abuse, anogenital sex and 
intravenous drug addiction.13 
There were several routes of HIV/AIDS transmission in Nigeria. These 
included sexual transmission (heterosexual, homosexual anal sex and 
oral sex), Mother-to-Child Transmission and blood transfusion/blood 
products and the use of contaminated sharp objects, medical 
procedures like injection, surgical operations, obstetric and dental 
procedures, circumcision, dressing of wounds, vaginal and rectal 
examinations and cultural practices like tattooing, tribal marking, body 
scarification, blood oathing, levirate practices, polygamy, partner 
exchange/share, female genital mutilation (FGM), blood rituals, 
circumcision, and incidental happenings like thorn prick, needle stick 
injury, blade cut, clipper cut and bite as well as disease like skin ulcers, 
genital ulcers, eczema, anal tear, peptic ulcers, bruises, cracked or sore 
nipple, mouth ulcers and a host of others. Intravenous Drug Use (IDU) 
was another mode through which HIV has been transmitted in Nigeria 
over the years.14 
HIV/AIDS have had seismic impacts on the Nigerian society. These 
impacts have cut across the Political, Social, Economic, Cultural and 
Health spheres of life. We shall isolate and discuss them in brief details: 
 
The Economic Impact 
The HIV/AIDS epidemic accentuates the trend of increasing household 
poverty already witnessed since its discovery in Nigeria in 1986. At a 
macroeconomic level, the loss of production resulting from illness and 
death in the population of working age translated into a reduction of 
Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and thus the per capital income 
                                                           13 A. S. Balogun, “HIV/AIDS Epidemic in the History of Nigeria, 1986 – 2007” … p. 
169 14 Federal Ministry of Health, National Situation Analysis of the Health Sector 
Response to HIV and AIDS in Nigeria, Abuja, Federal Ministry of Health,2005, p. 24 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the HIV/AIDS Advocacy Programme, 1986 – 2020 
83 
 
compared to what would have been achieved without HIV/AIDS 
equally declines. 
There are two issues of concern here. One of the issues is that of 
HIV/AIDS causing deepening poverty. The other is the combined effect 
of poverty and income inequalities on social transactions, including sex, 
patterns of vulnerability and patterns of risky behaviour in relation to 
HIV/AIDS infections.15 Early speculations projected that the AIDS 
epidemic would affect all levels of economic sectors from individual 
households to national economies. However, many argue that the 
impact of HIV/AIDS on developing countries like Nigeria would be 
more severe due to scarce government resources and the devastating 
effects of loss of human capital and what these would have on 
economic growth and development.16 
The agricultural sector in Nigeria employs the majority of labour. On 
the micro level there will be a loss of household earnings, fewer 
cultivated areas, lower household production and a reduction in crop 
diversification. The macro impact of AIDS on agricultural sector could 
threaten food supplies.17 Costs for imports products rises, changes in 
composition of market goods resulting in a loss of diversity in products; 
reduced quality, and Gross Domestic Products (GDP) and exports gets 
adversely affected. Ultimately there could also be a loss of foreign 
exchange from reduced cash crop. The combination of low supply of 
labour due to illness with increasing demand for labour from 
employers to maintain production leads to higher wages in the short 
                                                           15 S. I. Ugbegili, “Dimensions and Consequencies of HIV/AIDS on Nation Building in 
Post-Independence Nigeria” in C. S. Orngu and T. Wuam, eds, Tiv Politics and 
National Development: Issues and Perspectives, Lapai, Department of History and 
International Studies, Ibrahim BadamasiBabangida University, Lapai, 2013, pp.164 
– 165. 16 S. I. Ugbegili, “Dimensions and Consequencies of HIV/AIDS on Nation Building in 
Post-Independence Nigeria”… p. 165. 17 S. I. Ugbegili, “Dimensions and Consequencies of HIV/AIDS on Nation Building in 
Post-Independence Nigeria” …p. 165. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                             O. S. Tersoo 
84 
 
run to accommodate for labour shortage.18  With increased wages, 
employers over time are notable to continue business because their 
high expenditure in wages and training outweighs their profit. 
 
The Health System 
Overstretching of health facilities due to increased bed occupancy and 
frequency of consultations at the clinics and the increase in the need of 
resources to control the effects of the epidemic in the health sector 
threatens to overwhelm the already weak health system in Nigeria. 
According to W.H.O, in many Nigerian hospitals 50% of all beds were 
occupied by HIV/AIDS infected persons, the majority of services were 
allocated to HIV/AIDS patients and that between 1990 and 1996, 
estimated total health expenditure averaged 1% of the Gross Domestic 
Product (GDP).19 The epidemic is further complicated by the 
resurgence of other epidemics like tuberculosis. 
AIDS related illness and death among health workers have a high cost 
in terms of absenteeism, reduced productivity, treatment of illness, 
death benefits and the retaining of new staff despite the absence of data 
on such costs, there is ample anecdotal evidence of an increasing death 
toll among highly skilled man power, including health workers.20 
 
Political Impact  
This can be gleaned from the area of government policies; the 
formation of Non-governmental Organizations and the diversion of 
funds meant for the development of other sectors for the intervention 
of HIV/AIDS. The 2000s witnessed increased government plans to fight 
                                                           18 S. I. Ugbegili, “Dimensions and Consequencies of HIV/AIDS on Nation Building in 
Post-Independence Nigeria”… p. 165. 19WHO, Proggramming for Adolescent Health and Development, Report of the 
WHO/UNFPA/UNICEF Study Group on Programming for Adolescent Health, 
Geneva, WHO Press, 2000. 20N. Utulu, The Epidemiology of HIV and AIDS in Africa, Ibadan, University printer, 
2006, p. 206. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the HIV/AIDS Advocacy Programme, 1986 – 2020 
85 
 
HIV/AIDS. The Federal Ministry of Health in Nigeria launched a US 
$240 million HIV/AIDS Emergency Action Plan (HEAP) to fight the 
disease. 21 Again, in the year 2000, the Federal government approved a 
new institutional framework to co-ordinate the national response to 
HIV and AIDS. The framework highlighted the multi-sectoral approach 
and emphasized the decentralized nature of the Nigerian response. The 
National Action Committee on AIDS (NACA) was responsible for 
coordinating the response at the national level while the State Action 
Committee on AIDS (SACA) and Local Government Action Committee 
on AIDS (LACA) had similar responsibilities at the state and local 
government levels respectively. Community Action Committees on 
AIDS (CACAs) and Ward Action Committee on AIDS (WACA) were 
expected to function at the grassroots.22 
In addition, as government policies were favourable in respect to 
fighting HIV/AIDS in Nigeria, there was also an unprecedented 
involvement of the Civil Society in national response efforts. A large 
number of Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs), Faith-Based 
Organizations (FBOs), Community Based Organizations (CBOs) and 
health professional groups were implementing HIV/AIDS control 
programmes. Networks and coalitions had also emerged in large 
numbers to improve coordinated response among various Civil Society 
groups. These included the Civil Society Network on HIV/AIDS in 
Nigeria (CiSNHAN), Network of People Living with HIV/AIDS in Nigeria 
(NEPWHAN), Interfaith Council, and the Nigerian Business Coalition 
Against HIV/AIDS (NIBUCAA). The emergence of these groups and their 
activities were not just aimed at fighting the disease but they were 
                                                           21 S. I. Ugbegili, “Dimensions and Consequencies of HIV/AIDS on Nation Building in 
Post-Independence Nigeria” … p. 166. 22 C. Jean Garland, AIDS is Real and it’s in Our Church, Jos, African Textbooks and 
Honey Press, Bukuru, 2003, p. 101. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                             O. S. Tersoo 
86 
 
equally aimed at procuring funds from government for the welfare of 
their members.23 
 
Cultural Impact 
This could be gleaned from the breakdown of extended family system 
due to HIV/AIDS burden. Once a household member develops AIDS, 
increased medical and other costs, such as transport to and from health 
centres occur simultaneously with reduced capacity to work, creating a 
double economic burden.24 Thus, extended family is broken-down in 
order to limit the burden and cater more for the person that has 
developed AIDS. 
 
Social Impact 
The social impact of HIV/AIDS is primarily measured in the following 
areas:  Reduction in population, falling life expectancy, stigmatization, 
diversion of resources from savings and investments, low productivity 
and increased in the number of orphan and vulnerable children (OVC) 
amongst many others. HIV/AIDS has claimed so many lives in Nigeria. 
Apart from that, most at risk of HIV infection in Nigeria are women of 
child bearing age. As a result of the infection, most of these women are 
never able to produce the number of children they would have had 
without HIV/AIDS.25 Reduced fertility is increased by the reality that 
20% to 39% of babies born to HIV mothers were infected through 
vertical transmission. The demographic impact of HIV/AIDS pandemic 
is falling life expectancy for adults and children, increased infant 
                                                           23 S. I. Ugbegili, “Dimensions and Consequences of HIV/AIDS on Nation Building in 
Post-Independence Nigeria” … pp. 166 – 167. 24 S. I. Ugbegili, “Dimensions and Consequences of HIV/AIDS on Nation Building in 
Post-Independence Nigeria” … p.161. 25 S.N. Utulu, The Epidemiology of HIV and AIDS in Africa … p. 201. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the HIV/AIDS Advocacy Programme, 1986 – 2020 
87 
 
mortality and child morbidity, mortality, malnutrition, disability and 
emotional trauma and others.26 
People living with HIV/AIDS are often stigmatized and discriminated 
against. They may be denied the right to work, education, housing or 
health services. People who are associated with HIV positive people, 
such as carrier’s family or friends may also be stigmatized. People who 
belong to groups that are associated with HIV, such as resource poor 
migrants, sex workers, and men who have sex with men, may face 
stigma and discrimination because they belong to these groups. 
HIV/AIDS is associated therefore with stigma, repression and 
discrimination as individuals affected (or believed to be affected) by 
HIV/AIDS have been rejected by their families, their loved ones and 
their communities.  In most cases, HIV/AIDS may be linked to 
perversion and those infected will be punished. Also, in some societies 
HIV/AIDS is seen as the result of personal irresponsibility. Sometimes 
it is believed to bring shame upon the family or community.27 
HIV/AIDS first affects the welfare of household through illness and care 
of family members, which in turn leads to the diversion of resources 
from savings and investment. It has been argued that the premature 
death of large numbers of the adult population, typically at ages when 
they have already started families and become economically 
productive, can have a radical effect on virtually every aspect of social 
and economic life. This is clearly indicated or shown by an increase in 
the number of dependents relying on smaller numbers of productive 
household member and increasing numbers of children left behind to 
be raised by grandparents or as child-headed household.28  Members 
                                                           26 S. I. Ugbegili, “Dimensions and Consequences of HIV/AIDS on Nation Building in 
Post-Independence Nigeria” … p. 160. 27 S. I. Ugbegili, “Dimensions and Consequences of HIV/AIDS on Nation Building in 
Post-Independence Nigeria” … p. 161. 28 S. I. Ugbegili, “Dimensions and Consequences of HIV/AIDS on Nation Building in 
Post-Independence Nigeria” … p. 161. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                             O. S. Tersoo 
88 
 
who would otherwise be able to earn or perform households and family 
maintenance may then be spending their time caring for the persons 
with AIDS. 
In addition, large numbers of orphans have been left with their 
grandparents. The elderly are left therefore to ensure that there is food 
in their households. The young people ordinarily should be the ones to 
function in the area of food production in societies but because they 
were in large numbers killed by the HIV/AIDS pandemic, the elderly 
are left to carry out food production activities. According to Du 
Guerney, “the elderly as a result of HIV/AIDS were largely invisible 
resources in the context of HIV/AIDS. They need or required assistance 
and empowerment in order to fulfill its indispensable potential in areas 
of Crisis”.29  The elderly are faced with the challenge of ensuring food 
security and survival of Orphans etc.  
The above mentioned impacts posed a nightmare to the economy of 
existence of Nigerians and have spurred different interventionist 
strategies from individuals, groups, Civil Society Organizations (CSOs) 
and government agencies, including the National Youth Service Corps 
(NYSC). It is understanding that informs our examination of the 
Strategies the NYSC has put in place to eliminating the HIV/AIDS 
pandemic. 
 
National Youth Service Corps (NYSC)’s Interventions to HIV/AIDS 
in Nigeria up to 2020 
The NYSC approaches to HIV/AIDS intervention could be categorized 
into three, namely: Sensitization or awareness creation/public 
enlightenment, HIV Counselling/Testing and ART Initiation and or 
referral linkages and Sharing of contraceptives. 
 
 
                                                           29 N. Utulu, The Epidemiology of HIV and AIDS in Africa … p. 205. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the HIV/AIDS Advocacy Programme, 1986 – 2020 
89 
 
Sensitization or Awareness Creation/Public Enlightenment  
The National Youth Service Corps is in collaboration with some 
international, national, regional and local agencies in meeting the 
HIV/AIDS challenge. Some of these organizations include: United 
Nations International Children Education Fund (UNICEF), USAID, 
World Health Organization (WHO), Women Trafficking and Child 
Labour Eradication Foundation (WOTCLEF) among others. NYSC 
members who volunteer for the programme undergo six days of 
intensive training in HIV/AIDS prevention, care and support. They form 
Community Development Service (CDS) groups in their places of 
primary assignment to carry out HIV/AIDS sensitization in both the 
public and private sectors of the Nigerian society. 
The volunteers in their out-reach enlighten members of the public on 
the modes of transmission of the virus, the need for routine HIV test, 
the possible ways to avert contraction of the virus, the effects of stigma, 
the need not to discriminate against people living with HIV/AIDS, 
Behaviour Change Communication (BCC), Home Based Care (HBC) and 
the possible ways of preventing Mother-to-Child-transmission. Again, 
Corp members work as peer educators. NYSC volunteers train students 
to work as peer educators, encouraging them to teach their friends and 
families about the disease. This educational 'domino effect' is helping to 
reach approximately 160,000 young people each year.30 It is on record 
that some students like Felicity Okeke hold meetings in the street 
outside their house where they teach young people about the life-skills 
they have learned from the NYSC members.31 In addition, as part of the 
sensitization or public enlightenment about HIV/AIDS, the volunteers 
mount Signposts and Billboards and issue out fliers with pictures 
depicting  what is to be done to avoid contracting HIV/AIDS. Youssef 
Bomoi captures this quite poignantly when he maintained that: 
                                                           30https://www.unicef.org/aids/nigeria _44985.html. Accessed, 06:03:2021 31https://www.unicef.org/aids/nigeria _44985.html. Accessed, 06:03:2021 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                             O. S. Tersoo 
90 
 
… So far, the Corps members we have trained have 
reached out to over six million people in the villages, 
schools and, of course, the major cities of this great 
country …That means we have everything we need to 
make this campaign succeed. The NYSC is more active 
throughout urban areas of the country, such as the 
capital city of Abuja and Gombe State in North Eastern 
Nigeria. However, NYSC members also routinely travel 
to rural areas. Volunteers first ask for the support of 
local leaders and then work to end stigma, raise 
awareness and encourage HIV-testing among the 
communities. In some rural villages, residents have 
even organized festival activities around the visit.  
When the queues are long, people can be entertained 
by music or dance performances while they wait.32 
It is worth of mention that the NYSC sensitization and awareness 
creation has had tremendous impacts on the reduction of HIV/AIDS 
and its attendant consequences. This is because through sensitization, 
people become increasingly aware of the modes of pestilence of the 
virus and the possible ways to staying free from it. 
 
HIV Counselling/Testing (HCT) and ART Initiation and/or Referral 
HIV Counselling and Testing is the service rendered to an individual in 
order for him/her to know his HIV status, which could be either 
positive or negative and is usually confidential. HCT is done in three 
distinct components, pre- test counselling before the blood is taken and 
this is meant to prepare the individual for the test and assess the risk 
level to HIV virus the person possessed.33 Also, it helps one to 
anticipate the result, whether it turns out HIV positive or negative.  The 
                                                           32https://www.unicef.org/aids/nigeria _44985.html. Accessed, 06:03:2021 33http://www.naca.gov.ng>hct-hiv-counseling-and-testing. Accessed, 06:03:2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the HIV/AIDS Advocacy Programme, 1986 – 2020 
91 
 
second component is the taking of blood sample and test by using rapid 
test kits and lastly is disclosure of result, counselling and referrals, 
depending on the outcome of the result. 
The NYSC volunteers are given the necessary materials such as 
Determine, Uni-Gold, Stat-pack, buffer, needle, hand gloves, Methylated 
spirit, cotton, disposable lab coat and safety box etc. They are also given 
the necessary training by some of the donor organization. Once 
someone tests positive or is HIV Reactive, he or she is linked to care 
and Antiretroviral Therapy (ART). In some cases, the HIV reactive 
person is referred for onward enrolment into care. It is pertinent to 
quickly mention at this juncture that post exposure prophylaxis is 
made available to the volunteers to ensure their safety. Post exposure 
prophylaxis are the pills taken when a health care worker, the NYSC 
volunteer in this case, had a needle prick or a cut of any kind while 
trying to inject or collect blood samples from HIV infected persons.  
 
The importance Of HIV Counselling and Testing: HCT has helped 
millions of people to know their status either they are positive or 
negative, HCT helps in preventing the spread of HIV, it allows the public 
to have access to medical care when tested positive, educates people 
who tested negative on the ways to stay negative and for a positive test 
result, how to live positively without infecting others. HCT provides 
critical information about HIV and the testing process; it gives 
information about how HIV is transmitted and how the public can 
protect themselves from infection. It also educates the public to know 
that HIV testing should be done regularly. In addition, testing for HIV is 
the gateway to prevention, care and treatment.  HIV testing and 
counselling should be routine test for every Nigerians, as this is the 
surest way to guarantee an HIV free generation.34 
 
                                                           34http://www.naca.gov.ng>hct-hiv-counseling-and-testing. Accessed, 06:03:2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                             O. S. Tersoo 
92 
 
Sharing of Contraceptives 
NYSC volunteers preach abstinence and chastity before and in marriage 
with a view to promoting marital fidelity, encouraging the expression 
of love between HIV discordant couples through known genital means, 
they share contraceptives like condoms and provide accurate and 
factual information on its effectiveness, including the limitations. This 
is to reduce the spate of pestilence of the HIV pandemic for people who 
cannot abstain totally from sex. It is on record that this has reduced the 
rate of HIV transmission in the Nigerian society.  
 
NYSC’s Challenges to HIV/AIDS Intervention in Nigeria 
Low technical capacity to design, implement, monitor and evaluate the 
programme is one of the major challenges facing the NYSC response to 
HIV/AIDS in Nigeria. Owing to this, there is loss to follow-up and lack of 
adherence to national guidelines for treatment and patients’ adherence 
to treatment regimen. There is no body in place to implement, monitor 
and evaluate the policies of the national agency for the control of aids. 
The implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the policies and 
guidelines of the national agency for the control of aids is at the mercy 
of the tidal currents. 
Again, there is limited capacity to provide appropriate and effective 
medical, psychosocial care and support services. Because of the 
insufficient manpower, graduates from other disciplines are lumped 
together in the NYSC HIV Community Development Service (CDS) 
Group or enlisted volunteers to help in the fight against HIV/AIDS. It 
should be noted that most of the people from the other discipline lack 
the capacity to provide appropriate and effective medical, psychosocial 
care and support services. However, despite these challenge, some of 
the corps members were trained before going out for sensitization. 
Moreover, inadequate funding, resources and misguided public policies 
have continued to jeopardize the efforts of NYSC in particular and 
Nigeria in general to slow the spread of HIV/AIDS. According to Dr. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the HIV/AIDS Advocacy Programme, 1986 – 2020 
93 
 
Peter Lamptey, “Throughout the world, millions of people are dying of a 
preventable disease because of apathy, denial and misguided public 
policy”.35 He further argued that “funding for prevention and care has 
not kept pace with the epidemic and in some cases it has actually 
declined as the number of people affected by HIV/AIDS has 
increased”.36 Sometimes Corp members contribute from their meagre 
allowance to live up to their challenges. Paucity of funds affects optimal 
functioning of logistics management. In addition to the problem of 
inadequate funding, transparency and accountability in government is 
poor as procurement processes are sometimes not followed. 
Corruption has seeped into the system. Funds budgeted by government 
are sometimes not released at all and when released are either not 
timely or not in full or both.  S. I. Ugbegili captured this quite succinctly 
when he noted that: 
The Federal Ministry of Health in Nigeria launched a US 
$240 million HIV/AIDS Emergency Action Plan (HEAP) 
to fight the disease. However, it was not clear if this 
money reached the grassroots of Nigeria. Money on 
HIV/AIDS were not always channelled to the people 
that needed attention.37 
The challenge of funding is further compounded by the poor economic 
situation of Nigeria. There is evidence to show that funding for certain 
activities is being withdrawn. To reduction the spate of pestilence of 
HIV/AIDS and it attendant negative consequences, political and 
business leaders must have the courage and the foresight to provide 
                                                           35https://www.fhi360.org/politics-lack-funding-are-main-barrier-global-hivaids-
prevention-june-27-1998. Accessed: 06:03:2021.  36https://www.fhi360.org/politics-lack-funding-are-main-barrier-global-hivaids-
prevention-june-27-1998. Accessed: 06:03:2021. 37 S. I. Ugbegili, “Dimensions and Consequences of HIV/AIDS on Nation Building in 
Post-Independence Nigeria” … p. 160. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                             O. S. Tersoo 
94 
 
adequate funding for HIV/AIDS prevention and support enlightened 
policies. 
Similarly, lack of a standardized management Information System for 
HIV/AIDS has also militated against the effectiveness of the 
organization. This has made it difficult for the sharing of HIV/AIDS-
related information across the 36 states of the federation. Again, this 
has accentuated the problem of poor record keeping and 
documentation in Nigeria. Perhaps, there is no standardized reporting 
format that all the HIV Community Development Service (CDS) groups 
across the states can adhere to. 
In addition, there is weak coordination mechanism and poor referral 
linkages between community-based HIV/AIDS Programmes and 
hospital services. Proper coordination creates opportunities to multi-
sectoral participation, greater political commitment and increased 
transparency among most partners. However, the quality of 
participation of NYSC in particular and Nigeria in general, as records 
have shown was limited. Oftentimes, the scheme bypassed Global 
Health Initiatives (GHIs) thereby weakening their effectiveness.38  
 
Conclusion 
This research is study in contemporary Nigerian social history. It has 
shown that the HIV/AIDS in Nigeria grew from a mere insignificant 
health challenge in Nigeria in 1986 and became an epidemic in the 
1990s due to lack of proactive responses to it. The impact of HIV/AIDS 
epidemic on Nigeria included deaths due to AIDS infection, increasing 
number of people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) and people affected 
by AIDS (PABA) as well as drastic increase in life expectancy in Nigeria. 
These deleterious impacts of HIV/AIDS on the human society have 
spurred different interventionist strategies from individuals, groups, 
                                                           38https://globalizationan-and-health.biomedcentral.com/articles/10/1186/1744-
8603-6-3. Accessed 06:03:2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the HIV/AIDS Advocacy Programme, 1986 – 2020 
95 
 
Civil Society Organizations (CSOs) and government agencies such as 
the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC).  
The NYSC employed different interventionist approaches such as 
Sensitization or awareness creation/public enlightenment, HIV 
Counselling/Testing and ART Initiation and or referral linkages and 
Sharing of contraceptives. However, inadequate funding, resources and 
misguided policies, low technical capacity to design, implement, 
monitor and evaluate the programme, limited capacity to provide 
appropriate and effective medical, psychosocial care and support 
services, lack of a standardized management Information System for 
HIV/AIDS and lack of a standardized management Information System 
for HIV/AIDS have continued to jeopardize the efforts of NYSC in 
particular and Nigeria in general to slow the spread of HIV/AIDS. It is 
concluded that government should maximize the presence of donors to 
strengthen other aspects of the healthcare system, demonstrate 
willingness to be accountable in order to encourage private sector 
funding, prioritize prevention activities to reduce new infections and 
electronic data capture system will help data quality and enhance 
proper planning. 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                              Amos AmehIchaba 
96 
 
 66 66    
    NYSC, National Primary Health Care Development 
Agency and the Combat of the Ebola Virus Disease in 
Nigeria 
 
 
Amos AmehIchaba 
 
 
Introduction 
The human body is, to a large extent, naturally vulnerable to diseases 
especially when exposed to conditions sufficient for transmission of 
such disease. Such is also the case in viral diseases. “Viruses are 
macromolecules capable of spreading from cell to cell and host to host, 
but are probably distinctive insofar as they lose their infectious identity 
on entering a cell and are completely dependent upon the biochemical 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC, National Primary Health Care Development Agency... 
97 
 
metabolic processes of that cell for their multiplication.”1 In humans, 
smallpox, the common cold, chicken pox, influenza, shingles, herpes, 
polio, rabies, hanta fever, AIDS, the novel Covid-19 and Ebola, which is 
the focus of this paper, are examples of viral diseases. 
Nigeria experienced an outbreak of the deadly Ebola Virus Disease 
(EVD) with the index case confirmed in Lagos on 23 July 2014 and a 
further spread involving nineteen (19) laboratory – confirmed cases. 
The West African region was ravaged by the outbreak of the Ebola 
Virus Disease (EVD) with over 20,000 recorded cases and 6,800 
fatalities between March 2014 and January 2015. Despite assurances 
that the Nigerian government was prepared to respond to an outbreak 
of the disease, the country was caught unaware and was forced into an 
emergency response. For obvious reasons, there was massive anxiety 
that the virus would rapidly spread to other parts of the country but 
despite these fears, the spread of Ebola was successfully controlled in 
Nigeria with the country’s cases being among the least recorded in an 
Ebola outbreak.2 
Notwithstanding the success recorded between 2014 and 2015 by 
Nigeria in containing the spread of Ebola, viral diseases require 
adequate level of preparedness and pro-activeness in view of possible 
outbreaks. All indications point to the fact that Nigeria recorded the 
extent of success achieved in the containment of the spread of the 2014 
Ebola outbreak partly because of the pragmatic nature of government’s 
strategy and the luck that the cases were still within control as at the 
time of discovery. Supposing up to five infected persons entered the 
country through different routes days before manifesting symptoms? 
In such a scenario, the possibility of spreading the virus in their various 
                                                           1Karl Habel, “The Nature of Viruses and Viral Diseases” Medical Clinics of North 
America 43, no. 5 (1959): 1281 2Faisal Shuaib, et al, “Ebola Virus Disease Outbreak – Nigeria, July – September 
2014” Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report 63, no. 39 (October, 2014). 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                              Amos AmehIchaba 
98 
 
destinations when symptoms begin to manifest, is high and the 
country’s personnel and facilities would have been overwhelmed. 
Under such circumstances, the country would need to think outside the 
box to take contact tracing and mass social mobilization to the ends of 
the country. It is in view of this that this paper sets out to examine the 
roles of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and National Health 
Care Development Agency (NHCDA) in combating the Ebola Virus 
Disease in Nigeria with reference to social mobilization and advocacy 
across the country, especially with the resurgence of the virus and its 
possible spread in the Democratic Republic of Congo and other parts of 
Africa. 
 
Ebola Virus Disease: Highlights of its Nature and History 
Ebola virus disease (EVD), deadly viral disease, was discovered in 1976 
when two successive outbreaks of fatal haemorrhagic fever occurred in 
different parts of Central Africa. The Democratic Republic of Congo 
(formerly Zaire) experienced the first outbreak in a village near the 
Ebola River, which gave the virus its name. The second outbreak 
occurred in what is now South Sudan, approximately 500 miles (850 
km) away. Originally, public health officials assumed these outbreaks 
were a single event linked with an infected person who travelled 
between the two locations. However, scientists later discovered that 
the two outbreaks were caused by two genetically distinct 
viruses: Zaire ebola virus and Sudan ebola virus. After this discovery, 
scientists concluded that the virus came from two different sources and 
spread independently to people in each of the affected areas. 3 
Ebola Virus Disease (EVD) is a perilous and contagious disease with a 
high fatality rate among infected humans.4 EVD can be transmitted 
                                                           3Center for Disease Control and Prevention, “History of Ebola in Humans” 
Accessed February 25, 2021, 
https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/history/summaries.htm 4Shuaib, et al, “Ebola Virus Disease Outbreak – Nigeria, July – September 2014” 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC, National Primary Health Care Development Agency... 
99 
 
from both infected animal and humans through direct contact with 
body fluids including bloody secretions and even the carcass of infected 
animals such as bush meat, chimpanzees, gorillas, and fruit bats (most 
of which are delicacies in most affected regions), as well as from 
humans via direct contact (through broken skin or mucous 
membranes) with the blood, secretions, organs or other bodily fluids of 
infected people, and with surfaces and materials (e.g. bedding and 
clothing) contaminated with these fluids.5 
Currently, there are five identified species of the Ebola virus, with four 
being identified to cause disease in humans. They include; the Zaire 
Ebola virus, the Sudan Ebola virus, the Taï Forest Ebola virus, formerly 
referred to as the Côte d’Ivoire Ebola virus, and the Bundibugyo Ebola 
virus.6 The Reston Ebola virus which is the fifth known specie, has been 
seen to have caused disease in nonhuman primates only.7 
Following infection with the Ebola virus, symptoms begin to manifest 
after a gestation period of 2 to 21 days, which is the time interval 
between initial infection with the virus and when signs and symptoms 
begin to manifest. First symptoms to be expected include the abrupt 
commencement of fever, fatigue, muscle pain, headache and sore 
throat. This is swiftly followed by vomiting, diarrhoea, rash, and more 
severe symptoms such as impaired kidney and liver malfunction, 
internal and external bleeding (e.g. oozing from the gums, blood in the 
stools) occur in complicated cases.8 Possible laboratory findings 
include low white blood cell and platelet counts and elevated liver 
                                                           5Ibid 6Dorothy Crawford, Ebola: Profile of a Killer Virus (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 
2016), 34 - 37 7 World Health Organization, “Ebola Virus Disease” Accessed February 26, 2021, 
https://www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/ebola-virus-disease 8 Juliet Egbule, “The Emergence of Ebola Virus Disease in Nigeria, 2014” Public 
Health Protection, Accessed February 26, 2021, DOI: 10.13140/RG.2.1.3706.3206 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                              Amos AmehIchaba 
100 
 
enzymes. It is significant to note that humans are not infectious and 
cannot transmit the virus until they develop symptoms. 
Since the first outbreak in Nzara Sudan and Yambuku Congo both in 
1976, several outbreaks have appeared intermittently in Gabon, 
Sudan, Congo and Guinea.9  However, the 2014 outbreak in West Africa 
is the largest and most complex Ebola outbreak since the virus was 
first discovered in 1976. The 2014 outbreak recorded more cases and 
mortality compared to previous outbreaks combined.10 It also spread 
between countries starting in Guinea then spreading across land 
borders to Sierra Leone, Liberia, Senegal and Nigeria. As at 2014, the 
Ebola virus disease was responsible for over 1800 deaths.11 
 
Ebola Virus Disease: The Nigerian Experience 
Following months of extended outbreak in neighbouring countries like 
Guinea, Liberia, and Sierra Leone, the Ebola Virus Disease (EVD) finally 
made its way to the shores of Nigeria, with Lagos as the first city to 
play host to the dreaded virus. The status of Lagos as the regional hub 
for economic, industrial, and travel activities, and home to over 21 
million people from all works of life, ethnicity, race and religion made 
a rapid spread of the virus a massive possibility there. Another huge 
epidemiological concern posed by the possibility of an Ebola outbreak 
in Lagos is its densely populated slums and unsanitary surroundings, 
thus making it a potentially favourable environment for communicable 
diseases such as Ebola to thrive easily.12 
Lagos played host to the Ebola virus on July 20, 2014, when a severely 
ill traveller from Liberia arrived at the international airport in Lagos. 
He was said to be under observation in a facility in Monrovia, Liberia 
                                                           9  WHO, “Ebola Virus Disease” 10Center for Disease Control and Prevention, “History of Ebola in Humans” 11 Ibid 12Egbule, “The Emergence of Ebola Virus Disease in Nigeria, 2014” 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC, National Primary Health Care Development Agency... 
101 
 
for possible Ebola infection following previous exposure to the virus 
from his sister who was a confirmed case and subsequently died from 
the disease in Liberia.13 The patient developed a fever and while 
symptomatic, left the health facility against contrary medical advice. 
He also defied surveillance rules against travelling and boarded a 
commercial airline from Monrovia to Lagos. On arrival at the Lagos 
international airport the afternoon of July 20, he became severely ill 
having vomited during the flight and on arrival. He was instantly 
moved by airport officials to a private hospital where he was assessed 
and observed to have fever, vomiting, and diarrhoea and was 
immediately admitted. At the hospital during routine examination, the 
patient was questioned and denied any recent contact with an Ebola 
patient, but suggested he was suffering from an attack of malaria. 
However, after several days of non-response to the administered 
malaria treatment, and the onset of some unusual symptoms, including 
several suspicious attempts by the patient to leave the hospital, the 
physicians began to suspect a case of Ebola. At this point, the Lagos 
State Ministry of health was notified, the patient was isolated and 
tested for the Ebola virus and the first case of Ebola Virus Disease in 
Nigeria was officially confirmed.14 
On July 25, the patient died and since prior information about his 
correct medical state was concealed, no appropriate precaution or 
protective measure was taken while handling him and this had 
potentially made 72 persons at the airport and the hospital vulnerable 
to the Ebola virus. This marked the beginning of panic and 
pandemonium as public health organisations and officials all around 
the world dreaded a potentially incredible and catastrophic outbreak 
should the disease spiral out of control in a city such as Lagos. Several 
strategies were quickly deployed to tackle the outbreak and just as the 
                                                           13Center for Disease Control and Prevention, “History of Ebola in Humans” 14Ibid 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                              Amos AmehIchaba 
102 
 
victory against the outbreak in Lagos was in sight, the virus made its 
way into the country’s oil hub, Port Harcourt on 1 August due to a 
breach in surveillance, when a direct contact of the index case 
discretely sought medical care from a private physician resident there. 
The doctor contacted the disease and developed symptoms on 10 
August and died of Ebola on 23 August. Laboratory tests confirmed the 
city’s first case on 27 August. This gave rise to a new chase for 
surveillance and contact tracing in the oil city in subsequent days.15 
The EVD outbreak came to an end after 3 months, with a total of 898 
contacts who were linked to the index case, including 351 primary and 
secondary contacts and 547 tertiary and higher order contacts. Nigeria 
confirmed a total of 19 cases, with an average case fatality rate of 40% 
constituting 7 deaths and 12 survivors.16 
 
Nigeria’s Response Strategy to the 2014 Ebola Virus Disease 
Outbreak 
Following the official confirmation of the index case of the Ebola Virus 
Disease in Lagos State, the Federal Ministry of Health in collaboration 
with relevant external organizations on the 23rd of July, declared the 
Ebola virus disease an emergency and consequently commissioned the 
Ebola Incident Management Centre (IMC).17 The principal aim of the 
IMC was to promptly respond to the emerging outbreak by serving as 
the general implementing arm of the national response team. The IMC 
was however later recast as the national Emergency Operations Centre 
(EOC).18 The EOC established a template within which all partner 
organisations, volunteers, and response teams functioned. An Incident 
manager was appointed, and was charged with the responsibility of 
supervising the response team, as well as delivering liable and honest 
                                                           15 Ibid 16Shuaib et al, “Ebola Virus Disease Outbreak – Nigeria, July – September 2014” 17Center for Disease Control and Prevention, History of Ebola in Humans 18Shuaib et al“Ebola Virus Disease Outbreak – Nigeria, July – September 2014”. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC, National Primary Health Care Development Agency... 
103 
 
feedback to the Federal ministry of Health and the Nigerian centre for 
Disease Control (NCDC).19  
A high ranking strategy team was responsible for the comprehensive 
design of the response. It composed of principal agencies including the 
World Health Organisation, Centre for Disease Control, doctors 
without borders, and the United Nations Children’s Fund, coordinated 
by the Incident manager and assisted by the deputy incident manager. 
The EOC came up with six key areas which needed rapid response and 
therefore created response teams which were designed to effectively 
manage the outbreak, they included the Epidemiology/Surveillance 
team; Case Management/Infection Control; Social Mobilisation; 
Laboratory Service; Point of Entry and Management/Coordination.  
The strategy team further developed guidelines and prioritized 
various activities for each of the operational teams. However issues 
bothering on staffing, financial and material requirements, and targets 
were set and handled by the respective teams, and approved by the 
strategy team. Each operation team had representatives from technical 
partner agencies, for the purpose of improving the local team’s 
capacity. 
 
Epidemiology and surveillance: The epidemiology and surveillance 
team comprised of highly trained and dedicated epidemiologists from 
the CDC and WHO, who supervised a contact tracing crew. An 
extensive staffing plan was designed to efficiently cover Lagos State; 
this included about 150 contact tracers, and the deployment of 
existing assets such as vehicles, mobile phones, and data platforms to 
effectively record contact responses and feedbacks. They gathered 
succinct information on individuals who had a history of being 
exposed to a suspected case following onset of symptoms. They also 
carried out operational research, which aided in streamlining training 
                                                           19 Center for Disease Control and Prevention, History of Ebola in Humans 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                              Amos AmehIchaba 
104 
 
and community efforts, as well as numerous surveillance activities in 
the communities. During the first few days following the confirmation 
of the index case of the EVD, all primary contacts of the case where 
monitored daily by the contact tracing team to check for changes in 
body temperature, and the appearance of other related symptoms 
such as, vomiting, excessive diarrhoea, and haemorrhage.20 Primary 
contacts of the index case were also given portable thermometers to 
personally monitor their body temperature for signs of fever onset.21 
 
Case management/Infection control: The case management team 
was alerted in cases of onset of related EVD symptoms for assessments 
and reclassification.22After a suspected or confirmed case of EVD had 
been reported by the surveillance and laboratory team, the case 
management team was responsible for determining prospective 
patients, and decontaminating their immediate surroundings. Persons 
suspected to have been infected were kept in isolation at the 
specialised treatment facilities in Lagos, and subsequently Port 
Harcourt.  Due to the absence of a cure for the Ebola virus disease, the 
infected patients were administered oral rehydration therapy to 
replace lost electrolytes and fluids from the persistent vomiting and 
diarrhoea.23 
 
Social Mobilization: This was a key Strategy which was deployed to 
accommodate the dense population in Lagos state. It was directly 
associated with the contact tracing strategy as it involved house to 
house drop in visitations, around locations close to the houses of Ebola 
contacts depending on the population density. Over 26000 houses had 
been visited as at September 24,this accounted for the homes of all of 
                                                           20Center for Disease Control and Prevention, “History of Ebola in Humans” 21AdaoraIgonoh, “My Experience as an Ebola Patient” The American Journal of 
Tropical Medicine and Hygiene 92 no. 2 (Dec. 2014): 221 - 222. 22 Shuaib et al, “Ebola Virus Disease Outbreak – Nigeria, July – September 2014” 23Igonoh, “My Experience and an Ebola Patient” 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC, National Primary Health Care Development Agency... 
105 
 
the contacts and their immediate environment both in Lagos and Port 
Harcourt. The social mobilization team was also actively involved in 
Communication which was highly imperative in the management of 
the outbreak, as the response team worked to sensitize the public via 
engaging with community leaders such as traditional rulers and 
religious heads. These were strategies which were adopted from a 
previously successful campaign against polio in Nigeria. It effectively 
created widespread public knowledge and acceptance of 
immunization against polio.24 
 
Port of Entry: One of the key areas of concern during the outbreak was 
the channel through which the disease found its way into Nigeria in 
the first instance. This occasioned the need to set up the point of entry 
team which concentrated on identifying the primary contacts of the 
index case, ranging from those who came in contact with him outside 
Nigeria to those who assisted him from the airport to the hospital. 
They worked alongside other airport and airline officials to effectively 
carryout screening points for passenger entering and exiting the 
country. This was to ensure compliance with international safety 
regulations as well as prevent the further spread of the disease to and 
from the country.  
 
Laboratory service: Due to the unique and rare nature of the Ebola 
virus, as well the complexity in its diagnosis, the presence of a 
laboratory capable of diagnosing the disease situated right in Lagos 
University teaching Hospital was hugely beneficial during the initial 
period of the outbreak. This aided prompt identification of cases, and 
retesting for treated patients. Shortly after the confirmation of the first 
EVD case in Nigeria, steps were taken to construct Ebola treatment 
facilities.  
                                                           24Egbule, “The Emergence of Ebola Virus Disease in Nigeria, 2014” 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                              Amos AmehIchaba 
106 
 
Nigeria was certified Ebola free in October 2014, with a total of 894 
identified contacts, and about 18,500 persons who were followed up 
on a day to day basis for a duration of 21 days. As at the time of 
certification, Nigeria had undergone 42 days without any suspected or 
confirmed case of EVD.25 
 
The Roles of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the 
National Health Care Development Agency (NHCDA) in Combating 
the Ebola Virus Disease  
Each of the five operational groups highlighted above was crucial to the 
combat against the 2014 outbreak of Ebola in Nigeria but the social 
mobilization group appears to be the most critical of all in terms of 
curtailing the spread of the virus back in 2014 and even in a possible 
repeat of an outbreak. This is because adequate preventive advocacy 
and sensitization, especially at the grassroots, is crucial to the 
prevention of the virus from spreading beyond proportion. People 
(especially in the rural areas) need adequate conviction on the reality 
of the virus in the first place before getting them to observe preventive 
measures against it and this cannot be achieved just through the media 
from a distance. Consequently, the social mobilization group requires a 
category of personnel who by virtue of their assignments, are primarily 
and constantly in touch with their communities of assignment, which 
guarantees effective, efficient and faster coverage of the entire country. 
This is also the case with contact tracing, especially when the virus has 
spread to diverse locations before detecting it. This is where the roles 
of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and National Health Care 
Development Agency (NHCDA) become critical. 
 
 
 
 
                                                           25WHO, “Ebola Virus Disease”. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC, National Primary Health Care Development Agency... 
107 
 
NYSC and the Combat of Ebola in Nigeria 
The National Youth Service Corps was established in 1973 as a post-
civil-war strategy in Nigeria with the mandate to raise a class of 
patriotic, morally and physically disciplined Nigerian Youths who 
graduate from Universities and Polytechnics to undertake the national 
service. The aim of this programme is to stimulate the development of 
common ties among the youths of Nigeria as well as the advancement 
of national unity. During the obligatory one year service, Corps 
members live among and within the host communities facilitating unity 
and integration as well as championing community development by 
executing projects jointly with the people of their host communities.26 
One of the initiatives of NYSC that highlights the vitality of their role in 
combating the Ebola Virus Disease (EVD) is the Health Initiative for 
Rural Dwellers (HIRD). This initiative is targeted at reaching out to core 
rural areas to enhance the accessibility of health care services by rural 
dwellers.27 The programme engages Corps medical personnel in the 
sensitization of the core rural dwellers (who ordinarily will not be able 
to access medical attention due to neglect and remoteness of their 
location) on disease prevention, provision of first aid services, 
monitoring of cases and provision of appropriate referral when 
necessary. This scheme comprises of skilled volunteer Corps medical 
personnel (medical doctors, pharmacists, nurses, laboratory scientists, 
physiotherapists, dentists, ophthalmologists, medical lab scientists, 
biologists etc) who serve as intervention agents in all the 774 Local 
Government areas of the country. Due to the gross inadequacy of health 
care personnel provided by government, private and faith based 
organizations in the country to take care of the health needs of the 
populace, the volunteers under this scheme are disposed to providing 
                                                           26 NYSC, “Community Development Service and Special Projects Department” 
Accessed February 27, 2021 https://nysc.gov.ng/downloads/HIRD_PROFILE.pdf 27  NYSC, “National Youth Service Corpse Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers” 
Accessed February 27, 2021 https://www.nysc.gov.ng/cds.html 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                              Amos AmehIchaba 
108 
 
correct information and medical palliatives to Nigerians in every nook 
and cranny of the country if provided with the logistics and medical 
facilities.28 Beyond the Health Initiative for rural Dwellers (HIRD) of 
NYSC which emphasizes Corps members with medical academic 
backgrounds and orientations, other non-medical Corps members can 
be effectively involved in the social mobilization and advocacy against 
the Ebola virus with the proper training and orientation.  
Another important perspective from which the National Youth Service 
Corps should be at the heart of the fight against the Ebola Virus Disease 
is the comprehensive national coverage of the scheme. Every year, 
Corps members are deployed to all the states and Federal Capital 
Territory of the country where there are furnished with comprehensive 
orientation on the national assignment ahead of them. After this period 
of orientation, Corps members are further posted to their Place of 
Primary assignment which covers even the remote parts of each state. 
This implies that Corps members are found in almost every part of each 
state of the country for their primary assignments. In addition to its 
nationwide coverage, NYSC has an efficient network across the country 
that makes any collective national assignment easy. This makes the 
scheme the most suitable for social mobilization and advocacy against 
the Ebola Virus as they can cover all areas of the country within a short 
period of time. 
 
NYSC Combating Ebola Virus Disease (NYSC-COMEVID) 
NYSC Combating Ebola Virus Disease (COMEVID) was borne out of the 
threat posed by the outbreak of EVD in Nigeria in 2014 and continuous 
prevalence in some African countries. The NYSC-COMEVID was an 
initiative developed as a  strategy to contribute to the  national global 
response to the fight against Ebola Virus disease. The concept is 
premised on the wide reach of the scheme and designed to have within 
                                                           28 NYSC, “National Youth Service Corpse Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers” 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC, National Primary Health Care Development Agency... 
109 
 
a short time trained and aimed at least 1000 Corps volunteers in each 
state  with adequate skills to serve as advocates on awareness creation 
and prevention of EVD. 
The early eradication of the disease and the declaration of Nigeria as 
EVD free can be attributed to the programme and several other 
interventions strategies adopted by the Nigerian Government.29  
Again, the zeal and energy associated with youthfulness of Corps 
members is a huge advantage in their combat of the Ebola Virus 
Disease. To a large extent, the fight against Ebola requires a great deal 
of willingness and zeal corroborated by a level of knowledge, discipline 
and commitment that come with some level of academic formation on 
the part of the personnel. These are found in the youthfulness and 
academic qualifications of members of the National Youth service 
Corps which make their role in the combat of Ebola, unquantifiable. 
Moreover, Corpse members have successful completion of their service 
year at stake which keeps them disciplined and focused on their task of 
combating the Ebola Virus Disease. 
 
National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA) and 
the Combat of Ebola 
Following the declaration of the global target of Health for All in 1978, 
primary health care (PHC) has been globally acknowledged and 
adopted as the channel through which this lofty goal can be achieved. 
Global health can only become a reality when we accomplish Health for 
All in both developed and developing nations alike, the poor and the 
rich, the literate and the uneducated, old and young and women, 
children and the elderly. The primary health care system is a grass-root 
approach meant to address the main health glitches in the community, 
                                                           29   National Youth Service Corps Year Book, 45th Anniversary, Commemorative 
Edition 2018. Pp 30 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                              Amos AmehIchaba 
110 
 
by availing them preventive, curative and rehabilitative services.30In 
the Alma Ata declaration, primary health care has been defined as 
“essential care based on practical, scientifically sound and socially 
acceptable methods and technology, made universally accessible to 
individuals and families in the community through their full 
participation, and at a cost that the community and country can afford 
to maintain at every stage of their development in the spirit of self-
reliance and self-determination”.31 
Primary health care therefore, forms the foundation of health systems, 
ensuring all people stay healthy and get care when they need it. 
Primary health care connects people and families with trusted health 
workers and supportive systems to address the majority of their health 
needs throughout their lives.32 
In Nigeria, primary healthcare was adopted in the National Health 
Policy of 1988 as the foundation of the Nigerian health system as part 
of efforts to improve equity in access and utilization of basic health 
services. Since then, primary health care in Nigeria has evolved through 
various stages of development, part of which is the Primary Healthcare 
Development Agency (NPHCDA).33 
                                                           30Aigbiremolen, et al, “Primary Health Care in Nigeria: From Conceptualization to 
Implementation” Journal of Medical and Applied Biosciences 6, no. 2 (2014): 35 - 
43 31 WHO, “Declaration of Alma Ata’, Report on the International Conference on 
Primary Health Care, World 
Health Organisation” Accessed February 27, 2021 http://www.who.int 32 Primary Health Care Performance Initiative (PHCPI), “Primary Health Care: The 
Opportunity in Nigeria” Accessed February 27, 
2021https://improvingphc.org/sites/default/files/PHCPI%20Country%20Brief%20-
%20Nigeria.pdf 33Aigbiremolen, et al, “Primary Health Care in Nigeria: From Conceptualization to 
Implementation” 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC, National Primary Health Care Development Agency... 
111 
 
 The National Primary Healthcare Development Agency (NPHCDA) was 
established in 1992 and heralded the third attempt to make basic 
healthcare accessible to the grassroots. During this period, which 
spanned through 2001, the Ward Health System (WHS) which utilizes 
the electoral ward (with a representative councillor) as the basic 
operational unit for primary health care delivery was instituted.34 
This was in response to the devolution of Primary Healthcare to the 
Local Governments by the then military government. The Ward 
Minimum Health Care Package (WMHCP) which outlines a set of cost 
effective health interventions with significant impact on morbidity and 
mortality was also developed. The package took into cognizance the 
nation’s burden of disease, current trends in disease prevalence and 
priority diseases of national importance. The Ward Minimum Health 
Care Package was developed within the context of the Ward Health 
System and aligned with the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) 
targets of Nigeria. To drive this new policy, over 500 model health 
centres were established across the nation by the federal 
government.35 
While it was logical that Primary Healthcare, which is community 
oriented, be established around the tier of government perceived to be 
closest to the people, the sudden devolution of primary health care to 
the local government areas may have had negative implications on 
sustainability of quality as that level of governance is also known to 
have the weakest technical capacity. Again, the Federal Government’s 
intervention by building model health centres for the Local 
Government Areas, though well-conceived, was paradoxical to the 
newly initiated principle of devolution of healthcare. While this 
                                                           34 Ibid 35 National Primary Health Care Development Agency, “Minimum Standards for 
Primary Health Care in Nigeria” Accessed on February 28, 2021 
https://www.medbox.org/document/minimum-standards-for-primary-health-
care-in-nigeria#GO 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                              Amos AmehIchaba 
112 
 
intervention may have been sustainable under the unitary military 
dictatorship, its sustainability was challenged by the advent of 
democracy in 1999.36 
Although the National Primary Healthcare Development Agency 
(NPHCDA) had some modest achievements in its early years, it was not 
until the advent of democratic governance that it earnestly began to 
formulate and implement policies that would justify its place as the 
steward of primary health care in Nigeria. Principally significant 
amongst these are reactivation of routine immunization, polio 
eradication initiative, midwives service scheme (MSS), primary 
healthcare reviews, integrated primary healthcare governance, 
strengthening of the National Health Management Information System 
(NHMIS), and the bi-annual Maternal New-born and Child Health 
Weeks (MNCHW). 
Given the above nature and goal of the National Primary Healthcare 
Development Agency (NPHCDA) therefore, their role in the combat of 
EVD is not farfetched. In the first instance, the accent on breaking 
transmission (through social mobilization and contact tracing) in order 
to control EVD is an appropriate public health response in the early 
phase of an epidemic. This requires early diagnosis and quarantine 
which, in turn, both require building a relationship of trust between 
communities and health services.37 Fear and suspicion had disastrous 
consequences in some instances in some countries; for example riots 
ensued in Guinea in August 2014 after the circulation of rumours that 
health workers, who were disinfecting a market, were actually 
contaminating people. In another episode in Guinea in September 2014 
eight members of a team trying to raise awareness about EVD were 
                                                           36Aigbiremolen, et al, “Primary Health Care in Nigeria: From Conceptualization to 
Implementation” 37 Scott, et al, “Critiquing the Response to the Ebola Epidemic through a Primary 
Health Care Approach” BMC Public Health 16 (2016): 1 -9 DOI 10.1186/s12889-
016-3071-4 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC, National Primary Health Care Development Agency... 
113 
 
killed by villagers using machetes and clubs.38 The 2014 experience of 
EVD outbreak therefore shows that it is difficult to engage communities 
unless there is an existing well-developed relationship and a network 
of health workers who are already accountable to, and embedded 
within communities. Comprehensive primary health care response 
further advocates for extensive community engagement as a 
mechanism to give voice to marginalised communities and reduce their 
vulnerability.39 This makes Primary Health Care central to the combat 
against the EVD. 
Nigeria’s strategy that saw the successful victory over the EVD in 2014 
however, did not indicate the involvement of the National Primary 
Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA). The records indicate that;  
A team of 40 trained epidemiologists and 150 contact 
tracers was mobilised. They drew up a list of all 
Sawyer’s contacts and those of the subsequent Ebola 
cases. Locations were mapped and hot spots identified. 
Fifty teams of contact tracers did house-to-house, in-
person visits within a radius of each Ebola contact. In 
total, they visited 26 000 households in Lagos and 
Rivers States.40 
There was no clear indication that these 150 contact tracers included 
the staff of the National Primary Health Care Development Agency 
(NPHCDA). However, some explanations for this seeming exclusion of 
the Primary Health Care workers could include the fact that the 2014 
EVD outbreak was identified and rapidly contained in good time, 
thereby preventing it from a full blown community transmission, which 
is where the services of the Primary Health Care workers would have 
                                                           38 Ibid 39  Ibid 40FolasadeOgunsola,”How Nigeria Beat the Ebola Virus in Three Months” Accessed 
February 28, 2021 https://theconversation.com/how-nigeria-beat-the-ebola-virus-
in-three-months-41372 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                              Amos AmehIchaba 
114 
 
been most required. Again, the poor state of Primary Health Care 
centres across the country in terms of personnel and facilities may have 
made it risky for the government to anchor such an emergency 
response required to contain the spread of the Ebola Virus Disease on 
the services of the National Primary Health Care Development Agency 
(NPHCDA). 
The above factors notwithstanding, it is the duty of government to 
revitalize, equip and reposition the National Primary Health Care 
Development Agency in order to get them fully involved in effectively 
playing their role in the combat of the EVD or an outbreak of any other 
viral disease both now and in the future. 
 
Conclusion 
The rationale behind a paper on the roles of the National Youth Service 
Corps (NYSC) and National Primary Health Care Development Agency 
(NPHCDA) in the combat of the Ebola Virus Disease in Nigeria almost 
seven years after the virus was successfully defeated in the country 
may be puzzling. Since the country successfully contained and 
eliminated the virus in the past, it may be as simple as repeating the 
earlier strategy that proved successful in 2014 whenever the virus 
comes visiting again. Unfortunately, it may not be as simple as that. As 
mentioned earlier, the country was lucky to identify the virus and deal 
with it in good time before ever degenerating to a countrywide 
transmission. The country may not be as lucky as 2014 when the virus 
comes visiting again, especially as there are reports of a resurgence of 
the EVD in Democratic Republic of Congo and other African countries. 
It becomes imperative therefore, that Nigeria builds capacity for a 
much wider coverage of response to the Ebola virus Disease41 and 
similar health emergencies in the future. From all indications so far in 
                                                           41 Patricia Henwood, “Ebola in West Africa: From the Frontline” in Ebola’s 
Message: Public Health and Medicine in the Twenty-First Century, ed. Nicholas 
Evans, Tara Smith and MaimunaMajumder (Cambridge: The MIT Press, 2016), 26 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC, National Primary Health Care Development Agency... 
115 
 
this paper, it is clear that the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and 
National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA) were 
not fully involved in the combat against the EVD in 2014, they have 
fundamental roles to play in the combat of the virus in the future, 
especially in the area of social mobilization including community 
sensitization, contact tracing, vaccination42, etc, especially with reports 
of a re-emergence of the dreaded virus in Democratic Republic of 
Congo and other African countries. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           42 With the first FDA approved vaccine for Ebola – rVSV-Zebov in December, 2019, 
it would seem as though the fight against the Ebola Virus Disease is finally won 
and there may be no need to identify involvements and roles in the combat of the 
virus. But the fact remains that even with the presence of the vaccine, the people 
need to trust the government, health personnel and even the vaccine before 
accepting to be vaccinated. This requires social mobilization and advocacy which 
will significantly require the services of members of the National Youth Service 
Corpse (NYSC) and the National Primary Health Care Development Agency 
(NPHCDA). Again, the actual administration of the vaccines requires the 
nationwide coverage-advantage of both members of the NYSC and NPHCDA. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                              Amos AmehIchaba 
116 
 
Bibliography 
Aigbiremolen, A.O. et al, “Primary Health Care in Nigeria: From 
Conceptualization to Implementation” Journal of Medical and 
Applied Biosciences 6, no. 2 (2014): 35 – 43 
Center for Disease Control and Prevention, “History of Ebola in 
Humans” Accessed February 25, 2021, 
https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/history/summaries.htm 
Crawford, Dorothy. Ebola: Profile of a Killer Virus. Oxford: Oxford 
University Press, 2016. 
Egbule, Juliet “The Emergence of Ebola Virus Disease in Nigeria, 2014” 
Public Health Protection, Accessed February 26, 2021, 
DOI: 10.13140/RG.2.1.3706.3206 
Habel, K. “The Nature of Viruses and Viral Diseases” Medical Clinics of 
North America 43, no. 5 (1959): 1275-1290 
Henwood, Patricia “Ebola in West Africa: From the Frontline” in Ebola’s 
Message: Public Health and Medicine in the Twenty-First Century, 
edited by Nicholas Evans, Tara Smith and MaimunaMajumder, 
15-29. Cambridge: The MIT Press, 2016. 
Igonoh, Adaora “My Experience as an Ebola Patient” The American 
Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene 92 no. 2 (December 
2014): 221 - 222. 
National Primary Health Care Development Agency, “Minimum 
Standards for Primary Health Care in Nigeria” Accessed on 
February 28, 2021 https://www.medbox.org/document/ 
minimum-standards-for-primary-health-care-in-nigeria#GO 
National Youth Service Corpse, “Community Development Service and 
Special Projects Department” Accessed February 27, 2021 
https://nysc.gov.ng/downloads/HIRD_PROFILE.pdf 
National Youth Service Corpse, “National Youth Service Corpse Health 
Initiative for Rural Dwellers” Accessed February 27, 2021 
https://www.nysc.gov.ng/cds.html 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC, National Primary Health Care Development Agency... 
117 
 
Ogunsola, Folasade”How Nigeria Beat the Ebola Virus in Three Months” 
Accessed February 28, 2021 
https://theconversation.com/how-nigeria-beat-the-ebola-
virus-in-three-months-41372 
Primary Health Care Performance Initiative, “Primary Health Care: The 
Opportunity in Nigeria” Accessed February 27, 2021 
https://improvingphc.org/sites/default/files/PHCPI%20Count
ry%20Brief%20-%20Nigeria.pdf 
Scott, Vera, Crawford-Browne, Sarah and Sanders, David, “Critiquing 
the Response to the Ebola Epidemic through a Primary Health 
Care Approach” BMC Public Health 16 (2016): 1 -9 DOI 
10.1186/s12889-016-3071-4 
Shuaib, Faisal, et al, “Ebola Virus Disease Outbreak – Nigeria, July – 
September 2014” Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report 63, no. 
39 (October, 2014): 867-872 
World Health Organization, “Declaration of Alma Ata’, Report on the 
International Conference on Primary Health Care” Accessed 
February 27, 2021 http://www.who.int 
World Health Organization, “Ebola Virus Disease” Accessed February 
26, 2021, https://www.who.int/news-room/fact-
sheets/detail/ebola-virus-disease 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                  Abah, Joel 
118 
 
    77 77    
    National Youth Service Corps and the Fight against 
Drug Abuse in Nigeria 
 
 
Abah, Joel 
 
 
Introduction 
The National Youth Service Corps was created in a bid to reconstruct, 
reconcile and rebuild the economy after the Nigeria Civil War in 1967-
1970. It was established by decree No. 24 on 22nd May, 1973 which 
stated that it is being established “with a view for proper 
encouragement and development of common ties among the youths of 
Nigeria and the promotion of National unity”.1 Poverty, mass literacy, 
shortage of skilled man power, disunity, religious and cultural 
hostilities and intolerance, and many more were the issues that 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and the Fight against Drug Abuse in Nigeria 
119 
 
plagued the country which necessitated the then Yakubu Gowon led 
administration to establishing the NYSC. In an attempt to make the 
impact of the NYSC felt in all local Nigeria communities, Community 
Development Services (CDS) was introduced as one of the cardinal 
focus of the NYSC. Through the CDS groups, members of the Service 
Corps work with the local communities to promote self-reliance by 
systematically prospecting and executing development projects and 
programmes which imparts positively on the socio-economic 
development of the host communities.2 
Members of the Service Corps are called Corps Members, originally or 
in principle or ‘Corpers’ informally. Each Corps member is 
compulsorily assigned to a particular CDS group to enable them carry 
out their CDS with other Corp Members as a team. Personal CDS is 
optional but highly encouraged, as the Corps member with the 
outstanding service which cuts across all the cardinal programmes of 
NYSC is often given a state and President’s Honours award. Group CDS 
is expected to be attended once in a week, while the remaining four 
days of the week is for working at the Place of Primary Assignment 
(PPA). PPA is the institutional attachment of Corp Members where they 
are supposed to work as staff.3 
The objectives of the NYSC-CDS are summarized as follows; impacting 
positively on rural community life, developing the spirit of 
entrepreneurship, inculcating in the Nigerian youth the ideas and 
capacities for leadership, endurance, community service, national 
service, patriotism and creativity, exposure to customs and traditions 
of host communities, ability to experiment with ideas and translate 
them into concrete achievements thereby relying less on foreign 
technology and the promotion of local contents, harnessing the 
enormous talents and skills of Corps Members into an effective 
machinery of change in rural communities, providing on the job 
training, instilling in our youths the tradition of dignity of labour and 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                  Abah, Joel 
120 
 
productivity, and to complement the activities of government at all 
levels in the stride towards national development.4  
The following are some of the CDS groups; Corps Legal Aid group 
(provision of free legal services) Sports Group; (recreation and healthy 
rivalry), Cultural Tourism Group (Dance, band and drama), Education 
Development Group (Mass Literacy, Adult Education), Road Safety 
Group (Contributes to public safety), Medical and Health Services 
Group (Red Cross, Breast without spot), Drug Free and Quality Control 
Group (NDLEA, NAFDAC,SON) to mention but a few. For the purpose of 
this study, our focus shall be on the latter, which is Drug Free and 
Quality Control Group, they partner with NDLEA, NAFDAC and SON to 
regulate the consumption sub-standard and illicit drugs in Nigeria.5 
 
What is Drug? 
Drug in the broadest terms is any substance which changes the way the 
body functions, mentally, physically or emotionally. Drugs of abuse are 
generally classified within three major groupings:(a) depressants, such 
as alcohol and opioids (b) stimulants, such as amphetamines, and 
cocaine; and (c)hallucinogens.6-9 
While drug abuse and drug misuse are incessantly used 
interchangeably used, there is a slight difference in dealing with both 
concepts. For the purpose of this study, drug abuse describes the non-
medical, self-administration of a substance to induce psychoactive 
effects, intoxication or altered body image, despite the knowledge of its 
potential adverse effects, while drug misuse implies that a drug has a 
proper medical use and prescription, but it’s being employed for an 
incorrect purpose.10  The well-known example of drug misuse are 
observed in cases of self-prescription and drug overdose. This comes 
with grave consequences, such as altered metabolism and sever 
systemic organ dysfunction. One major consequence of drug abuse is 
dependence and addiction, characterized by compulsive drug craving 
behaviours and use that persists in the face of negative consequences. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and the Fight against Drug Abuse in Nigeria 
121 
 
These changes are maladaptive and inappropriate to the social and 
environmental settings, and therefore, may place the individual at risk 
or harm.11  
From the above, it can be deduced that drug abuse can be referred as 
continual or patterned use of drug in which the user consumes the 
substance in amounts or with methods which are harmful to them or 
others. When an individual persists in use of those drugs, despite 
problems created by the use of the substance, it may lead to 
dependence on those drugs. The compulsive and repetitive use can 
result in tolerance to the effects of the drug and results in dangerous 
symptoms when use is reduced or stopped. 
 
Dynamism of Drug Abuse among Nigerian Teenagers and Youths 
Stemming the flow of opioid imports has proven particularly difficult 
for Nigerian authorities. Two high profile raids at the country’s largest 
port November 2018 resulted in the seizure of over half a billion tablets 
of Tramadol, a pain relief drug often. The inflow of opioids is not 
limited to Nigerians alone either as UNODC says west, north and central 
Africa jointly account for 87% of all pharmaceutical opiates seized 
globally. Asides from the imports, Nigeria also faces internal problem 
with corruption at major local pharmaceutical companies boosting the 
illicit supply of codeine-based cough syrups to drug users. While the 
widespread illicit drug lingers, the survey also notes that there are 
major gaps in Nigeria’s healthcare system in “meeting the needs for 
treatment and care for people with drug use disorders”.12 Drug use 
habits in Nigeria have devolved with young people increasingly 
resorting to potent mixtures of several drugs at high risk of fatal 
overdoses. For instance, “gutter water,” a widely cocktail of drugs, is a 
mix of codeine, tramadol, rohypnol, cannabis and water or juice. Some 
young adults are also turning to crude concoctions as alternatives, 
including smoking lizard parts and dung as well as sniffing glue, petrol, 
sewage and urine as inhalants.13  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                  Abah, Joel 
122 
 
The use of drug for social rather than prescribed medical reasons has 
been well documented.14-15  A comparison with other third world 
countries reveals that Nigeria ranks among the highest users of 
dangerous drugs, such as alcohol, tobacco, cannabis, benzodiazepines, 
cocaine and opioids.16 A review of literature clearly indicates that there 
has been a steady increase in the prevalence of drug use and its 
associated consequences within the last three decades.17-19 Almost all 
kinds of psychoactive substances are available in Nigeria due to their 
spill over the streets from drug traffickers who use Nigeria as a conduit 
to transport drugs from South-East Asia(the Golden Triangle) and 
South America (Bolivia, Peru, and Brazil) to Europe and North 
America.20 
There is high prevalence among youths, especially students.21 The 
desire to explore, experiment, peer-pressures, lack or inadequacy of 
parental care and attention, and depression are some of the factors 
responsible for this menace. According to a research carried out at 
University of Lagos, Nigeria, using a WHO student drug survey 
proforma. Of the 1000 students surveyed, a total of 807 responded to 
the questionnaire resulting in 80.7% response rate. Majority (77.9%) of 
the students were aged 19-30 years and unmarried. Six hundred and 
ninety-eight (86.5%) claimed they were unaware of drug abuse, as they 
demonstrated poor knowledge and awareness. Marijuana, 298 (45.7%) 
was the most common drug of abuse as seen by most students. They 
were unable to identify very well the predisposing factors to drug 
abuse and the attending risks. Two hundred and sixty-six (33.0%) 
students were currently taking one or more drugs of abuse. Coffee 
(43.1%) was the most commonly used drug, followed by alcohol 
(25.8%) and marijuana (7.4%).22 
From the above, we can say, adverse health effects of substance use can 
be divided into four broad types ;(i) acute toxic effect (e.g illicit drug 
overdose and psychosis). (ii) Acute effect of intoxication (e.g accidental 
injury and violence related to alcohol intake (iii) development of 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and the Fight against Drug Abuse in Nigeria 
123 
 
dependence and (iv) adverse health effect of continued regular use (e.g 
chronic somatic disease and mental disorders). Studies analyzed above 
have shown association between substance use and various adverse 
effects. 
The consequences of drug on a youthful population can be overly 
disastrous. Some of which have been established through empirical 
researches includes; liver cirrhosis, pancreatic, peptic ulcer, 
hypertension, neurological disorder, tuberculosis, etc. Mental effects 
consist of retardation, growth deformity, nervous system deficiency, 
amnesia and dementia among others.23  The overwhelming effects of 
drug abuse and subsequent addiction is so shameful to the extent that 
both the national and international organizations all over the world are 
also worried about the spread of this scourge among youths.24 
 
Factors that Enhances Drug abuse among Youths 
Some of the pulling factors to drug abuse we will be discussing here 
very briefly will be limited to; demographic, family, and parental 
influence and peer-groups, consistency of use, and individual 
characteristic factors. 
Demographic Factors: Age and gender can predict the course of 
substance abuse. Several studies have found that, males have higher 
rate of alcohol and/ or illicit drug use than females.25  It was further 
reported that the period of major risk for initiation into alcohol and 
marijuana reaches its peak between the ages of 16 and 18, and is 
completed by age 20, and that the risk of trying illicit consumption of 
drug is highest at 18 and declines at 21.26 
Family, Parental Influence and Peer-Groups: Social risk factors 
involve the influence of the family, peers and environment. Many 
studies revealed that, in families where the use of alcohol and other 
drugs is high, the adolescence is likely to also be involved;27 we can 
further deduce that adolescence from dysfunctional or disturbed 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                  Abah, Joel 
124 
 
families are more likely to become substance abusers. This may be due 
to depression and lack or inadequacy of guidance. Adolescence whose 
peer groups are involved in alcohol are also likely to be involved. 
Consistency in Use Increases Persistency: Research has shown that 
the use of certain substance, such as alcohol and marijuana, can lead to 
increased use, as well as the use of harder drugs 28. Continual and 
senseless use of drugs can give rise to rebelliousness and precocious 
sexual and delinquent activities. In the nutshell, we can state 
categorically, that continual use of those substance leads to addiction 
despite the reality of negative outcomes.  Adolescents tend to begin 
with certain entry drugs such as cigarettes and liquor, then sequentially 
progress to marijuana and finally to harder drugs as most drug users 
do not limit themselves to one particular substance. Other causative 
factor is individual characteristics. Poor academic achievement has 
been found to influence and/or other drug use. Psychological variable 
such as self-esteem, motivation, developmental factors and depression 
can also contribute to drug use.29 
We can never be able to fully exhaust the causative factors that 
enhances the praxis of drug abuse. However, from the above, we can 
deduce that demographic (which states that males are prone to the 
risks of drug abuse), social networks (which includes, family, peers and 
environment) Consistency in use can lead to persistent use (which 
means that maintaining the habit of passive illicit use, can lead to the 
use of harder drugs) and the individualistic factor (which refers to the 
fact that low self-esteem, lack of motivation, depression, poor academic 
achievement or performance etc) could all lead to drug abuse. 
We can recall that earlier in this study, we mentioned that consumption 
of illicit drug could lead to mental issues, acute toxic effect (e.g, illicit 
drug overdose and psychosis) acute effect of intoxication (e.g 
accidental injury and violence related to alcohol intake), development 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and the Fight against Drug Abuse in Nigeria 
125 
 
of dependence and adverse effect of continued regular use. We should 
bear in mind however, that the effects are not exhaustive here.  
It is against these cancerous effects of illicit drug production and 
consumption on the society, that the NYSC introduced the Drug Free 
and Quality Control CDS Group. The Group partners with NDLEA, 
NAFDAC and SON in carrying out its activities. This union is to create 
awareness on the dangers or consequences of drug abuse and see to 
the eradication of fake and adulterated drugs in Nigeria. They are also 
to ensure that Drug Free Clubs are established across Secondary 
schools, and as well ensure linkages with host communities, in order to 
birth grassroot results. We shall therefore proceed to see how the 
partnership has helped to sensitize and educate the public about the 
dangers of illicit drug businesses and consumption. The CDS group is in 
operation in all states of the federation (See ABC, NYSC 2014). 
However, we take a cursory look at some of their activities across 
Nigeria. 
 
NYSC Drug Free and Quality Control CDS Group, NDLEA, NAFDAC 
and SON Partnership 
In accordance to the directive of the NYSC-Director General in 2014, the 
purpose for the establishment of the Drug Free and Quality Control CDS 
Group (in partnership with NDLEA, NAFDAC and SON) shall be that, 
they will see to the eradication of adulterated foods, and drugs and 
secondly creating awareness on the dangers of drug abuse. In order to 
achieve these goals, they will embark on; campaign and sensitization, 
establishment of drug free clubs in schools and ensuring linkages with 
host communities. 30  
In carrying out these assignments, Corps members usually go out to 
open places, such as schools to organize debates on drug abuse, in 
some places, if the conditions are conducive, they establish the Drug 
Free Club in such a school, after the debate. Under certain conditions, 
participants in the debates are automatically conscripted into 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                  Abah, Joel 
126 
 
becoming the pioneer members of the Drug Free Club. In market spaces 
too and especially on market days, the Corps members also stage a 
short play let or drama, singing and dancing in the native languages of 
the community. This is done to draw the attention of onlookers and 
passersby in order orientate, educate and sensitize them about the 
inherent dangers of drug abuse. In some of the places, Corps members 
uses placards and marker to translate English into the original 
language of their audience or the community. This is to enhance their 
understanding. Some other times too, they go on to make use of signs, 
symbols and pictures of deranged drug addict usually in chains, who is 
almost beyond recovery on sign posts and banners in passing across 
their messages. All of the entertainments such as drama, singing and 
dancing, et cetera, are all geared towards educating the public on drug 
abuse and the unending advantages of creating a drug free society. 
On September 14, 2017, Corps Members of the NYSC Drug Free and 
Quality Control (DFQC) CDS group, Akure South Local Government 
Area in Ondo State took to the street to carry out campaigns and public 
sensitization on drug abuse, quality and to avoid self-medication. They 
advised the public to visit medical practitioners and avoid self-
medication, and also advised youths to avoid hard drugs. They went 
further to teach their audience the importance of NAFDAC and SON.31  
On Thursday, 9th of May, 2019 at Katsina State, they also took their 
advocacy activities to Government Girls Secondary School, Katsina. The 
group enlightened the students on issues bothering around drug and 
substance abuse in our immediate society and how it affects them, 
especially as young women and teenagers. The programme ended with 
questions and answers session where the students shared the 
knowledge and opinion on the topic.32  
In its bid to ensure that Sokoto state is a drug abuse free zone, the 
NDLEA/DRUG FREE CDS Club stormed Royal Comprehensive 
Secondary School, Angwuakoasi Phoenix village, Sokoto to sensitize 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and the Fight against Drug Abuse in Nigeria 
127 
 
them on the Effects of Drug Abuse on Nigeria youths. They defined drug 
abuse ‘as the taking of drugs without prescription (self-medication). It 
is also the intake (swallowing, injection, snuffing and inhaling) of hard 
drugs into the body to boost abnormal activities’. The Principal 
appreciated the Corps Members for their sacrifices.33  
In addition to the creating of public awareness and sensitizations, 
NDLEA and DFQC CDS groups in States like Oyo,34 Akwa Ibom,35 
Lagos,36 Benue,37 Kano,38 Zamfara,39  Bauchi,40 Rivers,41 Ekiti,42 Kebbi,43  
Osun,44 Abuja,45  Imo,46  Enugu,47 NDLEA/NYSC,48 and many others are 
maintaining very active social media platforms where they organize 
online campaigns to create awareness about the effects of illicit 
consumption of drugs. This is in partnership with NDLEA, NAFDAC and 
SON. 
The concerted efforts of the DFQC CDS group, NDLEA and SON, through 
campaigns, and sensitizations, establishing Drug Free Clubs in schools, 
have contributed drastically in reducing the illicit use of drugs. We can 
say that these are compulsory steps to eradicating drug abuse among 
the youths and teenagers. Through taking the drug free education to 
the very grassroots of every nook and crannies of the Nigerian 
communities through singing, dancing and translating written and 
spoken English into the local dialect of the communities has made 
linkages to local communities, the goal of the CDS group which has to 
do with linkages to host communities is achieved. As a result of this 
linkage, the partnership has birthed the establishment of the Drug Free 
CDS Club in schools within the host communities. The outreaches, 
rallies and sensitization they do, as well comb the community of drugs 
addicts and those that has the prospects of becoming addicts and also 
render aid to those who are battling with the menace of substance use. 
More also, many young adults who have discovered that drug abuse do 
not make anything good out of anyone, have also joined in the 
campaign.  By these activities, the Corps members have contributed 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                  Abah, Joel 
128 
 
their quota in collaboration with NDLEA, NAFDAC, and SON in 
eradicating illegal drug production and illicit consumption. 
 
Conclusion 
Having, examined NYSC and the fight against Drug abuse in Nigeria, we 
saw that NYSC was created by the Yakubu Gowon regime in order to 
reconstruct, rehabilitate and reconcile the Nigerian populace after the 
horrendous civil war in 1967-70. One of the cardinal focus of NYSC is 
community development services, which enables Corps members 
contribute positively to the various communities that usually hosts 
them. In accomplishing this CDS goal, various CDS-Groups were 
established. This exercise culminated into the founding of the Drug 
Free and Quality Control CDS Group, among others. The group partners 
with NAFDAC, NDLEA and SON with the major aim of eradicating drug 
abuse from the Nigerian society. The group employs the tools of 
creating awareness and sensitization of the public on the dangers of 
drug abuse, to ensure linkages with local communities and teaching 
them to say “NO”. Through this discourse, we have seen that their 
efforts are worthy of commendation. The price to save the Nigerian 
child should never be left in the hands of a few alone. In addition, we 
have also seen from this study that; demographic, peer-group, family, 
and parental influence, as well as other social and economic structures 
not exhausted here contribute as pulling factors into drug abuse.  We 
all must contribute our quota from the home front even to the larger 
society to stop this deadly menace. 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and the Fight against Drug Abuse in Nigeria 
129 
 
Bibliography 
 
1. National Youth Service Corps “Rivers Kopa Magazine” A Bi-
annual Publication of Press and Public Relations Unit, 2010, 
NYSC Rivers State 
2. NYSC-CDS ‘ABC’ of Community Development Service, NYSC 
National Headquarter Abuja, 2014, Press and Publicity Unit. 
3. Mohammed Abdullahi ‘Issues in Community Development 
Service Scheme of Nigeria, NYSC and Its Relevance to 
Community Development’. International Journal of Research in 
Science and Engineering, Vol:2, Issue:6, December. 2016. 
Available at www.researchgate.net/publication/332864813 
4. NYSC-CDS ‘ABC’ of Community Development Service, NYSC 
National Headquarter Abuja, 2014, Press and Publicity Unit. 
Available at www.nysc.gov.ng/objectives.php 
5. NYSC-CDS ‘ABC’ of Community Development Service, NYSC 
National Headquarter Abuja, 2014, Press and Publicity Unit. 
www.nysc.gov.ng/objectives.php 
6. Akande, D.A. ‘Preparation of Guidance Counsellors for Basic 
Education in Africa’, Education Community, 2009, February 
Issue, 21-37 
7. Bagley, M.F. ‘Alcohol Use and Abuse in a Rural School. A paper 
presented at the Annual Convention of the National Rural 
Education Association, 2010; Jackson, M.S (Eric Document 
Reproduction Service, No:339-580 
8. Amin, M.E. ‘Social Science Research, Conception, Methodology 
and Analysis’. 2005, Makarere University Printing Press, 
Kampala 
9. American Cancer Society ‘Relative Comprehensive Community 
Programming for Drug Prevention, with High Risk and Low 
Risk Adolescents’. Journal of Consulting and Chemical 
Psychology, 2009,  50(4), Pp.447-456 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                  Abah, Joel 
130 
 
10.  American Psychiatric AssociationDiagnostic and Statistical 
Manual on Mental Disorders, American Psychiatric Association, 
Washington DC, 175-184, Journal of Medical Sciences,1994, 
34:355-359 
11. American Psychiatric Practice Guidelines ‘Treatment of Patients 
with Substance Use Disorders’, 2nd Ed. American Journal of 
Psychiatrics, 2006,   163: Pp.1-82 
12. YomiKazeem‘A National Survey has Confirmed the Massive 
Scale of Nigeria Drug Problem; Quartz Africa Weekly Brief, 
2019; available at https/qz.com/Africa/1538843/Nigeria-drug-
abuse-14-million-adults-use-drugs/ 
13. YomiKazeem‘A National Survey has confirmed the Massive 
Scale of Nigeria Drug Problem’….2019 
14. Fareo DO(2012) Drug Abuse among Nigeria’s Adolescents 
Strategies for Counselling; International Journal of Social 
Research Methodology; 20: Pp.341-347 
15. Bonomo, Y.A., Bowes G., Coffey C., ‘Teenage Drinking and the 
Onset of Alcohol Dependence: A Cohort Study Over Seven Years 
Addiction,2014: 99:1520-1528 
16. DegenhardtL,Chiu WT, Sampson N, Kessler R.C, Anthony, J.C et 
al ‘Toward a Global View of Alcohol, Tobbacco, Cannabis and 
Cocaine Use’: Findings from the WHO World Mental Health 
Surveys; PLOS Medicine 2008:5(7):e141-available at 
https://journals.plos.org/plosmedicine/article?id=10.1371/jou
rnal.pmed.0050141 last accessed 23/02/2021 
17. Ihezue UH., Drug Abuse Among Medical Students at a Nigerian 
University: Part 1: Prevalence and Patterns of Use: journal of 
Natural Medical Association, 1988:80:81-85 
18. Oshodi O, Aina O, Onajole A Substance Use among Secondary 
School Students in Urban Settings in Nigeria: Prevalence and 
Associated Factors: African Journal of Psychiatry, 2010:13:1-3 
19. Dewings, S., Pluddemann A, Myers B.J., Perry C.D.‘Review of 
Injection Drug Use in Six African Countries: Egypt, Maritanius, 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and the Fight against Drug Abuse in Nigeria 
131 
 
Kenya, Nigeria, South Africaand Tanzania; Abingdon English 
Publishers, 2006:13:121-137. 
20. Klein A.,Trapped in the Traffic: Growing Problems of Drug 
Consumption in Lagos; Journal of Modern African Studies, Vol: 
32, Issue 4, Dec, 1994, pp.657-677. Published online by 
Cambridge Press, 2008. Available at 
https://doi.org/10.1017/S0022278X00015895 
21. Okafor, E.EYouth Unemployment and Implications for Stability 
and Democracy in Nigeria; Journal of Sustainable Development 
in Africa, 2011:Vol: 13, Issue 1, Pp.358-373. Available at 
https.www.jsd-
africa.com/jsda/V13No1_Spring2011_A/PDF/YouthUemploym
ent and Implications forStability of Democracy(Okafor).pdf 
22. Oshikoya, A.O, Perception of Drug Abuse among Nigerian 
Undergraduates; World Journal of Medical 
Sciences,2006:1;133-139 
23.  United Nations Office on Drug and Crime ‘Drug Abuse 
Treatment and Rehabilitation: A Practical Planning and 
Implementation Guide., UN Press 2003:1-144.  
24. Ogunsola S.O, Fejeminsin E.A., Aiyenuro A.E and Tune A.A., 
Experiences and Projections for Drug Abuse Sensitization and 
Eradication among Youths in South West, Nigeria; HSOA Journal 
of Alcoholism, Drug Abuse and Substance Dependence, 2020:1-
6 
25.  Johnson A., Botvin, G.J., Griffin, K.W., Diaz T., Scheier L.M 
Parenting Illicit Drug Use in Adolescents: Longterm follow-up 
Data from a Randomized Central Trial of School Population’. 
Addictive Behaviours, 2013:5:769-774 
26.  Lang G.J.Preventing Drug Abuse in Schools: ‘Social and 
Competence Enhancement ApproachesTargetting Individual 
Etiological Factors’. Addictive Behaviours, 2011:25(2):887-897. 
27. Wachira C.W., John M.,Bernard W., Effects of Parent’s 
Alcoholism on Students’ Education in Public Secondary 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                  Abah, Joel 
132 
 
Schools:A Casestudy of Kangema-Sub-County, Murang’a 
County-Kenya: International Journal of Education and Research, 
Vol.5, No:7 July 2017.101-122 
28.  NACADA., ‘Teens Drug Use: Impacts and Outcomes(ERIC 
Docuents Reproduction Service, (2010)  No: ED 333.317 
29.  Shan Barerah.,‘Forms of Drug Abuse and their Effects; 
Alcoholism and Drug Abuse Weekly(1), 2018:13-19. Available 
at 
www.researchgate.net/publication/332319381_forms_of_drug
s_and_their_effectsaccessed 3rd/02/2021 
30. NYSC-CDSABC of Community Development Service:2014,  
available at www.portal.nysc.org.nysc3/programmes.aspx.  
Accessed 3rd/02/2021 
31. Ondo State Drug Free NYSC CDS GroupCampaigns and 
Sensitization of the Public on Drug Abuse 2017; available on 
www.fabinfos.com/nysc-corps-members-sensitize-public-drug-
abuse-ondo-state  
32. Katsina State Drug Free NYSC-CDS Group:Secondary Schools 
Campaigns, 2019. Available at nysc-cds.com/cds-news/drug-
free-society-quality-control-cds-enlightens-katsina-students-
drug-substance-abuse. Accessed 03/02/2021 
33.  NYSC-DFC-CDS Group NDLEA/DFC Sensitizes Students on the 
Effect of Drug Abuse (n.d). Available at available at nysc/cds-
cds-news/ndlea-drugfree-club-sensitizes-students-effects-of-
drug-abuse 
34.  Oyo State NDLEA/DFC-CDS Group Online Platform:2021 
https://m.facebook.com/NYSCOYO/ 
35. Akwa-Ibom State NDLEA/DFC-CDS Group Online 
Platform:2021https://m.facebook.com/pages/category/public-
figure/IBOM-DRUG-FREE-CLUB.1667335603509546/ 
36.  Lagos State NDLEA/DFC-CDS Group Online Platform: 2021: 
https://m.facebook.com/category/Education/Drug-Free-Club-
Lagos-196590110387038 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and the Fight against Drug Abuse in Nigeria 
133 
 
37.  Benue State NDLEA/DFC-CDS Group Online 
Platform:2021https://m.facebook.com/Ndlea/nysc-Drug-Free-
Club-Otukpo-180301818709509 
38.  Kano State NDLEA/DFC-CDS Group Online Platform: 2021: 
https://m.facebook.com/DRUG-FREE-CLUB-
108484957502891/posts 
39.  Kaduna State NDLEA/DFC-CDS Group Online Platform,2021: 
https://m.facebook.com/pages/category/product-
service/DRUG-FREE-CLUB-112121207160969/posts/ 
40. Bauchi State NDLEA/DFC-CDS Group Online Platform,2021: 
https://m.facebook.com/pages/category/community/Bauchi-
Youth-drug-free-club-1369460 
41. Rivers State NDLEA/DFC-CDS Group Online Platform, 2021: 
https://m.facebook.com/Drug-Free-Club-
596259847067752/?ref/=refnf&hc_ref=ARRsp-
kDn_YkFHOnmgwGCmDOYX9TGhYgrGIFNDm0jo203eP3k3Wd
wXrMyc6j-PFCoQ1 
42. Ekiti State NDLEA/DFC-CDS Group Online Platform,2021: 
https://m.facebook.com/pages/categories/College-University-
Oye-Ekiti-153268671918585/ 
43. Kebbi State NDLEA/DFC-CDS Group Online Platform, 
2021:https://m.facebook.com/pages/category/Media/Drug-
Free-Quality-Control-cds-Bk-Kebbi-State-898015617038547/ 
44. Osun State NDLEA/DFC-CDS Group Online Platform,2021: 
https://m.facebook.com/pages/category/Nonprofit=organizati
on-Drug-Free-club-oau-914596358704006/posts/ 
45.  FCT-Abuja NDLEA/DFC-CDS Group Online Platform 2021: 
https://m.facebook.com/pages/category/community/DRUG-
Free-CLUB-Abuja-144236505672759/ 
46.  Imo State NDLEA/DFC-CDS Group Online Platform,2021: 
https://m.facebook.com/nysc.ndlea.drugfreeclub.imochapter/ 
47.  Enugu State NDLEA/DFC-CDS Group Online Platform, 2021:  
https://m.facebook.com/ndleansuka/NDLEACDSGROUP 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                  Abah, Joel 
134 
 
48.  NDLEA/DFQC-CDS Organizational Online Platform, 2021: 
https://m.facebook.com/pages/category/Government-
Organization/NYSCNDLEA-DRUG-FREE-CLUB-
162204167196808 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corp Members in Medical and Health Care... 
135 
 
 88 88    
    National Youth Service Corp Members in Medical and 
Health Care Service Delivery in Kogi State – Nigeria 
 
 
Sule, Abubakar 
 
 
Introduction 
The Nigeria's NYSC Scheme is national programme for all fulltime 
graduate youths who have obtained first degrees from university or 
polytechnic and are 30 years and below. The scheme was established in 
1973 after the civil war, in order to ensure rapid social and economic 
development of the country, and promote national unity amongst the 
different ethnic groups in Nigeria. Aside the establishment of NYSC 
programmes in Nigeria, similar programmes exist in other countries of 
the world such as Isreal, France, United States of America, Ghana, 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                                   Sule, Abubakar 
136 
 
Uganda, Zimbabwe etc though with varying modes of operations, 
scopes and durations (Elemure, 2015; ABT Associate, 2007; Ghana NSS, 
2011; Modondo, 2003). From existing literature, bridging poverty gaps 
and enhancing infrastructural development requires improved human 
capital development and world class leadership skills with proper 
guidance and relevant orientation (Agbonizuanghwe, 2006; Oguntuase, 
2011, Elemure, 2015). Despite of the aforementioned benefit of the 
scheme to the relevant stakeholders, the youths who are the core 
beneficiary requires other incentives to boost their productivity. For 
instance, within the health sector, health care personnel are very 
unequally distributed across rural and urban areas, partly because the 
incentives to serve in rural and isolated areas are small (World Bank, 
2010). This means realization of organisational goals is only possible 
with effective motivation of workforce (Whiting, 1963; Henry, 1998). 
The role of corps members in medical services cannot be 
overemphasized as they stand to bridge the health care delivery gap 
during the service year but this also requires both extrinsic and 
intrinsic rewards by virtue of rural locations of their services. This is 
necessary as World Bank (2010) survey reveals that, working 
conditions are difficult, particularly in rural areas with little incentives 
to respond to the communities’ demands. There are instances where 
absence of inadequate remuneration and working conditions, lead to 
developing different coping strategies by way of providing health care 
at home (Van Lerberghe, Conceicao, Van Damme, & Ferrinho, 2002), 
especially among corps members in medical services who have only 
one year mandatory period with attendant effect on the general health 
care delivery to the host community. Experience over the years has 
revealed that absence of incentives can bring distraction and 
frustration, resulting to corps member redeployment thus hindering 
NYSC scheme effectiveness. Importantly, in the words of Onumadu, 
(2013) corps members stand to contribute significantly towards the 
development of the rural areas irrespective of government role in rural 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corp Members in Medical and Health Care... 
137 
 
development. As such, NYSC service is very crucial in African societies 
to meeting common challenges through common efforts (Arigbo, 
Onuekwusi & Ikoro, 2019). 
The extent to which corps members in medical services have enhanced 
health care delivery in rural area particularly Kogi remains 
unexamined, which is the essence of this chapter. Specifically, this 
research set out to achieve the following specific objectives:(i) to 
investigate factors influencing health care service delivery among corps 
members in medical services (ii) to ascertain how incentive to corps 
members in medical services and health facilities enhances health care 
service delivery and (iii) to investigate the extent to which 
infrastructural facilities and financial service leads to improvement in 
health care service delivery. This research is necessary because of the 
disposition of corps members in medical services, to choice of their 
place of primary assignment on account of health and physical 
infrastructure and financial service factors, which might hinder the 
actualization of the core of objective of the NYSC scheme.  
 
Literature Review 
Conceptual Issues: Corps Members and Health Care Service 
Delivery 
Eberly (2002) emphasized that National Youth Service is an occupation 
for young people that are constructive and an investment in the future, 
thus the scholar conceptualize National Youth Service as an organised 
activity in which young people serve others and the environment in 
ways that contribute positively to the society. To Agumagu, Adesope 
and Mathews-Njoku (2006), the National Youth Service Corps is a 
programme meant for graduates of tertiary institutions to serve the 
nation for one year as a way of integrating them into other 
geographical region in the country. National Youth Service Corps is a 
Nigerian organization which was established by the Nigerian 
government to engage fresh Nigerian graduates of tertiary institutions 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                                   Sule, Abubakar 
138 
 
in national development (Deebom & Daerego, 2020). It is mandatory 
one year national programme for Nigerian and foreign trained 
university and polytechnic graduates of 30 years and below. In 
literature, the rationale behind the whole concept of NYSC centred on 
the need to foster national unity and integration (Elemure, 2015). To 
Chimeleze (2012), the aim of NYSC scheme is to bring about unity in 
the country and to help youth appreciate other ethnic groups. 
Corps medical personnel are in short supply thus affecting the number 
distributed to states for their one year mandatory service. The corps 
members in medical services include, Medical Doctors, Pharmacists, 
Nurses and Laboratory Technicians. Importantly, literature has 
emphasized on how several factors hinder their choice of place of 
service, this is includes; financial motivation, environmental factors and 
physical infrastructure. Bennet and Franco (1999) health workers 
motivation is a complex internal process that is determined by 
numerous individual, organizational, and socio-cultural or 
environmental factors. Workers individual needs, self-concept, and 
their expectations for consequences affect their motivation for 
performance (World Bank, 2010). Some factors that can influence 
workers to exert efforts in their performance might be more important 
than others (Hertzberg, 1959 cited in Bennet & Franco, 1999). The 
scholar further emphasized that there are factors that can affect 
workers dissatisfaction by their presence or absence such is the case of 
salary, work conditions, job security, and interpersonal relations. Other 
factors such as achievement, the work itself, recognition, responsibility, 
advancement and growth can determine the level of motivation and 
satisfaction. In many developing countries, it is reported that improved 
salaries and benefits are major financial incentives for workers to 
remain in the health sector (Wibul polprasert & Pengpaibon, 2003) but 
it is often difficult to increase salaries in resource-constrained settings 
(Mbemba, Gagnon, & Hamelin-Brabant, 2016). Given the position of 
various scholars, motivation/incentives is a necessary tool that stands 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corp Members in Medical and Health Care... 
139 
 
to enhance the productivity of individual in labour forces translating to 
better performance of organization or institution. 
Obansa, and Orimisa, (2013) service delivery change reform in the 
health system is aimed at improving the quality of care and consumer 
satisfaction, ensure efficiency in the use of resources as well as enhance 
clinical effectiveness and to ensure equity and access to health care and 
thus promote social well-being. Health care services are activities 
geared towards the provision of a comprehensive package of integrated 
care to beneficiaries through the primary, secondary and tertiary levels 
(Federal Ministry of Health, 2009). The organization of the delivery of 
primary health care services largely varies across states in Nigeria 
(World Bank, 2010). Health care according to Okafor (1982) includes all 
services rendered to help someone with problems to return to or 
maintain normal health. Fouquet and Gage (1994) pointed out that 
these services include safety measures, proper nutrition, exercises, 
rest, sleep and medical care. Quality of care means delivering effective, 
safe, people-centered, efficient, timely, equitable, and integrated health 
services (The Global Fund, 2019). The severity of the health workforce 
crisis in some of the world’s poorest countries is illustrated by the 
World Health Organization (WHO) (2006), which estimates that 57 
countries, of which 36 in Africa, have a deficit of 2.4 million doctors, 
nurses and midwives. Also, the uneven distribution of the health 
workforce between urban and rural areas and the absence of a well-
trained and supported staff constitute major problems in delivering 
services to meet the needs of communities in developing countries 
(Willis-Shattuck, Bidwell, Thomas, et al. 2008). Globally, it is recognized 
that nearly half of the global population living in rural and remote areas 
is facing enormous difficulties in access to quality healthcare (Mbemba, 
et. al., 2016), thus the need for corps members in medical services to 
complement the resident health personnel.  
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                                   Sule, Abubakar 
140 
 
Theoretical and Empirical Literature 
Theoretically, several scholars have emphasized on how motivational 
package enhance health practitioners service delivery (Humphreys, 
Jones, Jones, et al., 2001; Chen, Evans, Anand, et al., 2004). According 
Maslow (1954) argued that employees are motivated to satisfy five 
need levels: physiological needs, security need, belongingness need, 
self esteems and self actualization organizations, the needs are 
generally satisfied by adequate wages/salary and the attractive 
incentive packages. Importantly, incentive theory is one of the major 
theories of motivation and suggests that employees are motivated to do 
things out of a desire for incentives (Bernstein, 2011, Hockenbury & 
Hockenbury, 2003). These scholars position is similar to Herzberg 
(1959) position that there are two distinct human needs; physiological 
needs that can be met by money or material things and psychological 
needs to grow that can only be met by activities that make one achieve 
or develop (Dininni, 2011). Kerr (1995) further posits that reward 
serves many purposes in organizations and this is built on either 
extrinsic rewards or intrinsic rewards. To Kerr, it is extrinsic rewards 
system if employees receive benefits such as bonuses, salary raise, gifts, 
promotion and any other kinds of tangible rewards while intrinsic 
rewards encompasses things that tends to give personal satisfaction to 
individuals which includes; information/feedback, recognition, and 
Trust/Empowerment. The scholars conclude that intrinsic rewards 
make the employee feel better in the organization, while extrinsic 
rewards focus on the performance and activities of the employee in 
order to attain a certain outcome. Importantly, every organizational 
employee behaviour is predicated on the level of incentives received 
from the employer. This scholarly position on incentives or 
motivational package available to workers be it government 
establishment or private organization is a necessary factor that is not 
only essential to the worker’s attitude but also stand to benefit and 
enhance the individual growth and by extension that of the 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corp Members in Medical and Health Care... 
141 
 
organisation or institution. Therefore, these theoretical positions 
capture the relationship this study set out to establish.  
The study of Elemure, (2015) investigate the effectiveness of the 
national youth service corps scheme among 2012-2013 corps members 
in Lagos and Oyo states, Nigeria. In other to achieve the study objective, 
the use of descriptive statistics, t-test, multiple regression and content 
analysis were employed and findings reveal that corps members 
performance as rated by the employers remains significant during the 
period of the study. Fareo, (2020) examine the perception of National 
Youth Service Corps Members’ towards community development 
service (CDS) in Adamawa State, Nigeria. The study sampled Batch A 
corps members in the 2018/2019 service year and the analytical 
technique employed is mean, Spearman Rank Order, t-test analysis and 
Analysis of Variance (ANOVA). Findings show that corps member’s 
attitude to CDS was positive. In a study carried out in Rivers State – 
Nigeria by Deebom and Daerego (2020) examine the influence of 
National Youth Service corps entrepreneurship skill acquisition 
programmes on youth empowerment. The study employs Mean with 
Standard Deviation and z-test. Empirical results reveals that skills 
listed were available in NYSC- Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship 
Development (SAED) programme for acquisition for youth 
empowerment while NYSC-SAED programmes are also faced with some 
challenges. This study looks at the problems and counselling needs of 
corps members in Nigeria using analysis and variance (ANOVA) and the 
t-test Statistics (Adeoti & Olaewe, 2009). Finding reveals that 
psychological issue remains the major challenge of corps members.  
In a related study carried out in Abia State – Nigeria on community 
involvement in the National Youth Service Corps community 
development service projects (Arigbo, Onuekwusi & Ikoro, 2019),  the 
study employs frequency, mean and Pearson Product Moment 
Correlation for the analysis of the data and findings show that corps 
members carried out more of human development projects than 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                                   Sule, Abubakar 
142 
 
infrastructural projects. This is in addition to positive relationship and 
significant effect between corps member’s project executed and 
community development activities of the NYSC. Similarly, in a study on 
the effect of national youth service corps teachers` input on students` 
academic performance in secondary schools in Ogun State, Nigeria using 
frequency counts, percentage, means and Pearson Product Moment 
Correlation (Odufowokan, 2013) and finding reveals that input of NYSC 
teachers on secondary school students significantly impact on the 
students` academic performance. In the study of Falola, Ibidunni and 
Olokundun, (2014) who used standard deviation to evaluate incentives 
packages and employees’ attitudes to work in Ogun State, South-West, 
Nigeria. The study was able to establish strong correlation between 
incentives and employees’ attitudes towards work; this result confirms 
the theoretical position on incentives in motivating workers to 
workers.  
The study by Abdullahi, Cheri, Chikaji, (2016) carried out the analysis 
of the implementation of community development service projects of 
national youth service corps in Nigeria The study used documentary 
analyses and finding shows that NYSC scheme is very effective given its 
existing structure. However, it could be marred with challenges like 
inadequate encouragement and motivation of Corps Members, forceful 
posting of Corps Members to CDS group and loss of spirit among Corps 
Members. On the other hand, Nnamani, Ugwuibe and Chukwurah, 
(2020) examines the evolution of multiculturalism in the challenge of 
national unity, with particular attention on national youth service corps 
scheme in Nigeria’s 21st century. The study used descriptive-analytical 
approach and empirical finding show that corps members most times 
faces rejection by their employers, worst of all is rejection of corps 
members by government establishments. 
It is evident from empirical review that there is no research that has 
examines corps members in medical services and health care delivery 
in Kogi and by extension Nigeria at large. This line of thought is 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corp Members in Medical and Health Care... 
143 
 
problem-driven solution that stands to address universal health 
coverage in Nigeria. It is imperative to ascertain the direction and 
facilitates how to strengthen corps members in medical services and 
health care service delivery relationship.     
 
Methodology 
Kogi State is one of Nigeria’s 36 states, historically referred to as part of 
the middle belt of the country, but politically belonging to the North 
Central geopolitical zone. The state comprises three senatorial districts; 
East, West, Central, and their major languages are Igala, Ebira, Yoruba 
and other minority groups. According to statistics from Federal 
Ministry of Health, (2019) the state boasts of 1235 health care centres 
for both government (1003) and private individuals (232) which are 
scattered across its 21 local government areas (LGAs) to serve a 
population of about 4,473,490 million people in 2016 (CBN, 2018).  It is 
estimate that about 75 percent of the population lives in rural areas 
with agriculture as their major source of livelihood given their fertile 
arable land and location in forest savannah in addition to other trading 
activities. The focus of this study is among the corps members in 
medical services residing in the selected sample area.The choice of Kogi 
is based on the number of health care facilities owned by both 
government and private individuals. There good number of notable 
health care centres across Kogi State such as Federal Medical Centre in 
Lokoja, General Hospitals in each local government area of the state in 
addition to other privately owned health care facilities.  
This study adopted a survey design which focused on a small sample of 
corps members. Data for the study will be sourced from field survey 
using instrument of questionnaires. The target population for the study 
comprises the entire serving corps members in medical services in 
both public and private health care centre in Kogi State, Nigeria. 
Statistics has shown over time that there are few people interested in 
health related profession thus reasons for the limited number of corps 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                                   Sule, Abubakar 
144 
 
members in medical services. From the field survey to some NYSC 
officials in Lokoja, the state capital, the following are the corps 
members serving under Batch A and Batch B (stream 1 & 2) 2020. 
 
Table 8.1: Total Number of Corps Members in Batch A and B, 2020 in 
Kogi State 
S/No Batch Numbers Based on Sex Total 
Male Female 
1 Batch A  850 1050 1900 
2 Batch B (1 & 
2) 
469 302 771 
 Total 1319 1352 2671 
Source: Field Survey, 2021 
 
Table 8.2: Total Number of Corps Members in Medical Services in 
Batch A and B, 2020 in Kogi State 
S/No Batch Numbers Based on Sex Total 
Male Female 
1 Batch A  32 50 82 
2 Batch B (1 & 
2) 
19 22 41 
 Total 51 72 123 
Source: Field Survey, 2021 
 
The emphasis of this research is on corps members in medical services. 
The total of 123 corps members in medical services in Batch A and B 
2020 is spread across four (4) categories of medical professions 
namely; Medical Doctors, Pharmacists, Nurses and Laboratory 
Technician. Given the number of corps members in medical services, 
the entire 123 of themwere purposively sampled. 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corp Members in Medical and Health Care... 
145 
 
The collected data relates to respondents’ socio-economic 
characteristics, factors influencing health care delivery, incentive to 
corps members in medical services, health facilities, infrastructural 
facilities and financial service. The research objective formulated 
guided the process of data analysis. From the results, four (4) points 
Likert scale ranging from Strongly Agree, Agree, Strongly disagree and 
Disagree were used while the information from the field survey where 
analyzed using Chi-square test. To effectively collect data for this study, 
the primary source of data was used while the instrument for data 
collection is Focus Group Discussion (FGD) and questionnaire. The 
validity of the instrument (questionnaire) used for this study was done 
through a discussion with statistician regarding the content, format 
adopted and its general suitability to the respondents as well as their 
appropriateness to the purpose of the research. 
 
Results and Discussion 
Socio-Economic Characteristics of the Corps Members in Medical 
Services 
 
Table 8.1 summarizes the result of socio-economic characteristics 
of corps members in medical services in Kogi State. 
 
Table 8.3: Socio-Economic Characteristics of Respondents 
Distribution Frequency Percentage (%) 
Sex   
Male 51 41.46% 
Female 72 58.54% 
Total 123 100 
Marital Status 
Married 12 9.76% 
Single 111 90.24% 
Total 123 100 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                                   Sule, Abubakar 
146 
 
Categories of Corps Members in Medical Services 
Medical Doctor 24 19.51% 
Pharmacists 30 24.39% 
Nurses 51 41.46% 
Laboratory 
Technicians 
18 14.63 
Total 123 100 
Source: Field Survey, 2021 
 
Table 3 reveals that 41.46% (51) of the population of corps members in 
medical services are male while the remaining 58.54% (72) are female, 
this implies that more female are into medical related profession than 
male. For the marital status, it was observed that 90.24% representing 
111 respondents of the corps members in medical services are singles 
while only 9.76% (12) are married. It is possible that the percentage of 
married corps members in medical services due to length of time spent 
in health related professionals thus, some might not want to wait after 
graduation. This population of married corps members in medical 
services is negligible as many may not want to mix family affairs with 
rigorous academic exercise. One of the reasons many of the 
respondents decide to wait to be married after graduation. Lastly, there 
are four major categories of corps members in medical services 
sampled in this study and 19.51% of the populations are medical 
doctors, 24.39% are pharmacists, 41.46% are nurses while the 
remaining 14.63% represents laboratory technicians. It is observed 
that most of the corps members in medical services are nurses and the 
reason is not far fetch due to limited length of time spent before 
graduation unlike medical doctors and pharmacists. This goes to shows 
that corps members in medical services in Kogi State are mostly nurse 
and pharmacists. Generally, given the limited number of corps 
members in medical services, there is possibility that some corps 
members may not be posted to some local government areas.  
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corp Members in Medical and Health Care... 
147 
 
Factors Influencing Health Care Service Delivery 
In other to achieve the above objective, this research was able to 
explore both the channel of empirical literature and focus group 
discussion with corps members in medical services to identify factors 
that influences health care service delivery in rural and urban areas. 
From the empirical studies and Focus Group Discussion (FGD), the 
following submission were made and grouped under two sub-heads 
(i) Absence of Physical Infrastructure: These physical 
infrastructures such as pipe borne water, good road 
network, electricity, transportation service, poor broadband 
penetration, access to available market, obsolete health 
facilities and poor housing accommodation. Nonavailability 
of good infrastructure does only affect administration and 
the psyche of corps members in medical service to stay in a 
particular location, but have significant impact on quality of 
health care service delivery. This is because, decent life 
through quality infrastructure enhances individual 
productivity, thus leads to meaningful service delivery. It is 
not out of place to say that absence of infrastructural 
facilities have capacity to hinders choice of location of corps 
members in medical services. Corroborating on this, the 
study of Kaibung’a, Mavole and Okuku, (2019) argued that 
poor infrastructure affects ability of staff to deliver health 
services. 
 
There are instance that absence of stable electricity supply 
hinders certain health facilities such as medical 
refrigerators, sterilizers, lamps, incubators, microscopes, 
centrifuges, X-Ray viewers amongst other. This is aside 
other minor health related cases they refer to urban centre 
on account of absence of qualified health personal and even 
lack of functional health care facilities. In other to sustain 
high quality health care delivery, the provision and 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                                   Sule, Abubakar 
148 
 
maintenance of crucial basic public and private healthcare 
infrastructure and human capital has to be put in place to 
close the gap between levels of supply and demand of 
health care delivery. 
 
(ii) Insecurity: Insecurity situation in Nigeria is no long new as 
virtually all rural and urban areas are faced with different 
form of security challenges such as kidnapping, banditry, 
and arm robbery arising from youth restiveness. If this is 
not check urgently, it will go a long way in affecting the level 
of development and quality of health care delivery. In this 
modern day, no part of Nigeria is safe, thus security is 
becoming a personal affair instead of that of government. 
This stands to affect the choice of service area of corps 
members in medical services. The role of corps members in 
medical services if adequately monitored, stand to 
complement that of resident health personnel.  
 
In other to achieve the objective two and three of this researcher, the 
study used questionnaires from the field survey, information collected 
were structured into four (4) points Likert scale ranging from Strongly 
Agree (SA), Agree (AG), Strongly Disagree (SD) and Disagree (DA) and 
this is presented in Table 1.  
 
Table 8.4: Responses from Corps Members Engaged in Medical 
Services 
S/No. Questions to Respondents SA AG SD DA 
A Incentive to corps members in 
medical services and health 
facilities that enhances health 
care service delivery 
    
1 Do you think the health care 
physical facilities in rural area is a 
good motivation to work 
18 25 45 35 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corp Members in Medical and Health Care... 
149 
 
2 Is there availability of health care 
equipments 
18 37 39 29 
3 Do rural health care centre provide 
capacity building  and career 
advancement to corps members in 
medical services 
15 21 53 34 
4 Do rural health care centre have 
adequate drugs and supply 
17 19 59 28 
5 Do health care centre in rural area 
receive health care consultant from 
federal medical care  
21 47 34 21 
6 Is incentive (such as allowances) a 
good reason to motivate corps 
members in medical services to 
work in rural area 
19 50 31 23 
 Total 108 199  261 170  
B Infrastructural facilities and 
financial services that leads to 
improvement in health care 
service delivery 
    
1 Are you satisfy with the quality of 
water in rural area 
18 31 44 30 
2 Is there average level of security in 
rural area 
29 43 29 22 
3 Do rural area provide suitable 
accommodation for corps members 
in medical services 
21 18 31 53 
4 Are you comfortable with the level 
of power supply in the rural area 
27 24 40 32 
5 Is there spouse career 
opportunities and children 
education 
18 24 51 30 
6 Is there broadband penetration in 36 48 21 18 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                                   Sule, Abubakar 
150 
 
the area that can enhance 
communication 
7 Is there good road and with good 
transport services in rural area 
21 23 46 33 
8 Is there access to financial services 
in rural area 
20 35 50 18 
9 Do you have access to banking 
innovation such as fintech and 
techfins 
19 43 38 23 
 Total 209 289  350  259 
Source: Field Survey, 2021 
 
Test of Hypotheses   
In line with the study objectives outlined in the previous section, the 
following hypotheses would be tested: 
H o1: There is no significant difference between incentive to corp 
members in medical services, health facilities and health care 
service delivery  
H o2: There is no significant difference between infrastructural 
facilities, financial services and health care service delivery.  
 
Table 8.5: Contingency Table for Hypothesis One 
A  SA AG SD DA Total 
 18 25 45 35 123 
 18 37 39 29 123 
 15 21 53 34 123 
 17 19 59 28 123  
 21 47 34 21 123  
 19 50 31 23 123  
 108 199 261 170 738 
Source: Field Survey, 2021 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corp Members in Medical and Health Care... 
151 
 
Table 8.6: Result of Hypothesis One 
Fo Fe Fo – Fe (/g2162/g2197−/g2162/g2187)/g2779 (/g2162/g2197−/g2162/g2187)/g2779
/g2162/g2187 
108 108 ×123
738 = 18 90 8100 450 
199 199 ×123
738
= 33.17 
165.83 27499.59 829.05 
261 261 ×123
738 = 43.5 217.5 47089 1082.50 
170 170×123
738 = 28.33 141.67 20070.39 708.45 
    X 2C = 3070 
Source: Author’s Computation, 2021 
 
Since the Chi-square calculated (X2C) is 3070 which is above the chi-
square critical (X2t = 6.314) the null hypothesis is rejected and the 
alternative hypothesis is accepted. This implies that there is a 
significant difference between incentive to corps members in medical 
services, health facilities and health care service delivery in Kogi State. 
 
Table 8. 7: Contingency Table for Hypothesis Two 
B  SA  AG SD  DA Total 
 18 31 44 30 123 
 29 43 29 22  123 
 21 18 31 53 123 
 27 24 40 32 123 
 18 24 51 30 123 
 36 48 21 18 123 
 21 23 46 33 123 
 20 35 50 18 123 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                                   Sule, Abubakar 
152 
 
 19 43 38 23 123 
 209 289 350 259 1107 
Source: Field Survey, 2021 
 
Table 8.8: Result of Hypothesis Two  
Fo Fe Fo – Fe (/g2162/g2197−/g2162/g2187)/g2779 (/g2162/g2197−/g2162/g2187)/g2779
/g2162/g2187 
209 209 ×123
1107
= 23.22 
185.78 34514.21 1486.41 
289 289 ×123
1107
= 32.11 
256.89 65992.47 2055.19 
350 350 ×123
1107
= 38.89 
311.11 96789.43 2488.79 
259 259×123
1107 = 28.78 230.22 53001.25 1841.61 
    X 2C = 7872 
Source: Author’s Computation, 2021 
 
Since the Chi-square calculated (X2C) is 7872 which is above the chi-
square critical (X2t = 6.314) the null hypothesis is rejected and the 
alternative hypothesis is accepted. This implies that there is a 
significant difference between infrastructural facilities, financial 
services and health care service delivery.  
 
Conclusion and Findings 
This research examined National Youth Service Corp members in 
medical services and health care service delivery in Kogi State – 
Nigeria. The specific objectives of this research is to identify factors 
influencing health care service delivery among corps members in 
medical services; to ascertain how incentive to corps members in 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corp Members in Medical and Health Care... 
153 
 
medical services and health facilities enhances health care service 
delivery and (iii) to investigate the extent to which infrastructural 
facilities and financial service leads to improvement in health care 
service delivery. The first strands of this research were able to identify 
physical and health infrastructural facilities in addition to insecurity as 
the major obstacles that hinder health care service delivery. This is 
because, corps members upon deployment particularly those in 
medical services, considers this factors before settling down in their 
place of primary assignment. This outcome corroborates with the 
findings of Falola, Ibidunni and Olokundun, (2014) and the earlier 
position of Wibulpolprasert and Pengpaibon, (2003) that emphasized 
the absence of improved salaries and benefits likely going to hinders 
workers stability in health sector in developing countries. The absence 
of these essential facilities also goes to prove why many corps members 
in medical service are quick to seek for redeployment to urban areas 
thereby hindering them to complement the duty of resident health 
personnel for the actualization of universal health coverage. 
This research was able to establish that there is significant difference 
between incentive to corps members in medical services, health 
facilities, physical infrastructural facilities, financial services and health 
care service delivery. From their responses, it was established that 
incentives to corps members go beyond financial package as emphasis 
is placed on health and physical infrastructural facilities and financial 
services that stand to enhance corps member’s standard of living 
during his/her service year. Inability of relevant stakeholders to make 
available these infrastructures is one of the reasons for poor state of 
health care system in developing countries, this is in line with the 
earlier findings of Mbemba, et al (2016).   
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                                   Sule, Abubakar 
154 
 
Recommendations 
From the above outcome, it is evident that the complementary role of 
corps members in medical services to health care service delivery in 
rural and urban areas under threat because of absence of modern 
health and physical infrastructure in addition to absence of financial 
services, thus stand to jeopardize the sustainable development goals of 
achieving universal health coverage by the year 2030. It is on this 
premise that this research suggests a community based security 
approach through local government stakeholders and community 
leaders to create a conducive environment to accommodate corps 
members in medical services so that they can contribute their quota to 
affordable and accessible health care service delivery. The task of 
achieving universal health coverage through allocation of 15% of 
annual budget to health sector is under threat, as many countries in 
Africa including Nigeria is yet to reach and surpass the Africa Union 
declaration in April 2001. The inability for government to adhere to 
this commitment is part of the reasons for the current state of health 
sector, thus the call on both government and private individual to 
partner on how to make available quality health care to rural dwellers 
by committing substantial amount of their budget and investment 
funds to upgrade the existing health care facilities in addition to fixing 
of physical infrastructural that can motivate corps members in medical 
services to serve in rural areas.     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corp Members in Medical and Health Care... 
155 
 
Reference 
 
Abdullahi, M., Cheri, L. Chikaji, A.I. (2016). Analysis of the 
implementation of community development service projects of 
national youth service corps: channels and hindrances. Ilorin 
Journal of Administration and Development, 2 (2), 1-14 
ABT Associates (2007). Serving country and community: A longitudinal 
study of service in Americorps Factsheet. Amreicorps. 
Adeoti, Y.F. and Olaewe, O.O. (2009).Problems and counseling needs of 
corps members in Nigeria.Africa Research Review,3 (1), 500-513 
Agbonizuanghwe, (2006).A position paper, F./download/nysnigeria. – 
Nigeria Villagesquare.mh+ 
Arigbo, P.O., Onuekwusi, G.C. and Ikoro, D.E. (2019). Community 
Involvement in the National Youth Service Corps Community 
Development Service Projects in Abia State, Nigeria. Journal of 
Agricultural Extension, 23 (4), 65-75. 
Armah-Attoh, D., Selormey, E., and Houessou, R. (2016).Despite gains, 
barriers keep health care high on Africa's priority list 
Bennet, S .and Franco, L. M. (1999). Public Sector Health Worker 
Motivation and Health Sector Reform: A Conceptual 
Framework. Major Applied Research 5, Technical Paper. 
Bethesda, MD: Partnerships for Health Reform Project, Abt 
Associates Inc., January. 
Bernstein, D. A. (2011).Essentials of psychology. Belmont, CA: 
Wadsworth. 
Chen L, Evans T, Anand S, et al. (2004). Human resources for health: 
overcoming the crisis. The Lancet 2004;364:1984-90.  
Chimeleze, L. C. (2012). Design and implementation of NYSC 
orientation camp information system (a case study NYSC 
Awgu). Department of computer engineering, Caritas 
University,  Amorji NIke Enugu. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                                   Sule, Abubakar 
156 
 
Chukwuma, A, Bossert, T.J. and Croke, K. (2019).Health service delivery 
and political trust in Nigeria.SSM - Population Health, 7 (2019) 
100382 
Conrad (2006). Personal Management in Nigeria Ethiope Publishing 
Co-operation, Benin City (Oluokotoni) 
Deebom, M.T. and Daerego, I.T. (2020). The Influence of National Youth 
Service Corps Entrepreneurship Skill Acquisition Programmes 
on Youth empowerment in Rivers State. International Journal of 
Humanities Social Sciences and Education,7(6), 146-155 
Dininni, J. (2011). Management theory of Federick Herzberg. 
Business.com media Inc. assessed from 
www.business.com/management/management-theory-of-
federick-herzberg/on 22/2/2021 
Eberly, D.J. (2002). National Youth Service in the 20th and 21st 
centuries. Essay prepared for the 4th Global Conference on 
National Youth Service held at Windsor Castle United Kingdom, 
http//.acys.utas.edu.au/Inys/essay.html. Retrieved 25th August 
2012. 
Elemure, V.E. (2015). Effectiveness of the national youth service corps 
scheme among 2012-2013 Corps Members in Lagos and Oyo 
States, Nigeria. A Thesis in the International Centre for 
Educational Evaluation (ICEE), Submitted to the Institute of 
Education in Partial Fulfillment of the Requirements for the 
Degree of Doctor of Philosophy of the University of Ibadan 
Falola, H.O., Ibidunni, A.S. and Olokundun, M. (2014). Incentives 
packages and employees’ attitudes to work: a study of selected 
government parastatals in Ogun State, South-West, Nigeria. 
International Journal of Research in Business and Social Science, 
3(1), 63-74. 
Fareo, D.O. (2020). Perception of National Youth Service Corps 
Members’ towards Community Development Service in 
Adamawa State, Nigeria. East African Scholars Journal of 
Psychology and Behavioural Sciences, 2(5) 146-150 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corp Members in Medical and Health Care... 
157 
 
Federal Ministry of Health (2009).The national strategic health 
development plan framework (2009- 2015). TWG- 
NSHDP/Health Sector Development Team, July 2009 
Fouquet, R. and Gage, H. (1994).The relationship between Health inputs 
and Health outputs. Economics and Operational Research 
Division. Dept. of Health. London. 
Ghana NSS, (2011).Ghana National Scheme Service Powered by NSS 
Ghana.org. 
Gilson, L. (2003). Trust and the development of health care as a social 
institution. Social Science and Medicine, 56(7), 1453–1468. 
Henry, F. (1998).Task characteristic regard contingency and intrinsic 
motivation. Organizational Behaviour and Human Performance, 
16, 294-307. 
Hockenbury, D. H. & Hockenbury, S. E., (2003). Psychology. New York: 
Worth Publishers. 
Humphreys J, Jones J, Jones M, et al. (2001). A critical review of rural 
medical workforce retention in Australia. Aust Health 
Rev 2001;24:91-102.  
Kaibung’a, L.I., Mavole, J.N., Okuku, M.T. (2019). Infrastructure and 
Healthcare Service Delivery in Tiaty Sub-County, Baringo 
County, Kenya. International Journal of Social and Development 
Concerns, 1, Article 8/12  
Kerr, S. (1995) Motivation a Global Perspective, eight edition Vikas 
Publishing House PVT LTD. Jangpura New Delhi 
Mbemba, G.I.C, Gagnon, M-P.and Hamelin-Brabant, L. (2016). Factors 
Influencing Recruitment and Retention of Healthcare Workers 
in Rural and Remote Areas in Developed and Developing 
Countries: An Overview. Journal of Public Health Africa, 31; 
7(2): 565. 
Modondo, O. (2003). The problem of youth in Mugabe’s Zimbabwe. 
Nnamani, D.O., Ugwuibe, O.C. and Chukwurah, D.C. (2020).National 
Youths Service Corps and Multiculturalism: The Epicenter for 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                                   Sule, Abubakar 
158 
 
National Integration in Nigeria. International Journal of 
Academic Information Systems Research, 4 (3), 21-30 
Obansa, S.A.J. and Orimisa, A. (2013). Health Care Financing in Nigeria: 
Prospects and Challenges.Mediterranean Journal of Social 
Sciences, 4 (1), 221-236 
Odufowokan, B.A. (2013). The effect of national youth service corp 
steachers` input on students` academic performance in secondary 
schools inOgun State, Nigeria. E-Leader Singapore 2013 
Oguntuase, W. (2011). Democracy and violence: the challenge of 
communal clashes, inLarry Diamond, Nigeria and the struggle 
for democracy and good governance. 
Okafor, S.I. (1982). Policies and practices, a case of medical facilities in 
Nigeria. Journal of Social Science and Medicine, 16, 243. 
Okore-Affia, (2013).Information for prospective (NYSC) corps 
members. http://www.nysbida.5u.com/passing-out.htm. 
Onumadu, F.N. (2013). Rural community development in Nigeria in 
Nwachukwu (2013). Agricultural Extension and Rural 
Development. Lamp House Publishers P. O. Box 
700, Umuahia, Abia State Nigeria 
President Muhammadu Buhari (2021) Offered Automatic Employment, 
Scholarship to 110 Ex-Corps Members. Available 
onhttps://statehouse.gov.ng/press-releases/president-buhari-
offered-automatic-employment-scholarship-to-110-ex-corps-
memebers/ February 11, 2021 
Robinson S.P. (1999). Organizational behaviour: concept, controversies 
and applications, New Delhi: Prentice hall 
Sigmund, F. (1990). Reward Management in Practice, McGraw New 
Delhi 
The Global Fund (2019).Building Resilient and Sustainable Systems for 
Health (RSSH) Information Note. The Global Fund, pg. 3-35, 23 
AUGUST 2019 
Van Lerberghe, W., Conceicao, C.l., Van Damme, W. and Ferrinho. P.  
(2002). When Staff Is Underpaid: Dealing with the Individual 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corp Members in Medical and Health Care... 
159 
 
Coping Strategies of Health Personnel. Bulletin of the World 
Health Organization, 80 (7), 581–584. 
Whitting, V.F. (1963). Work and motivations New York: John Wiley and 
Sons publishers. 
Wibulpolprasert S. and Pengpaibon, P. (2003).Integrated strategies to 
tackle the inequitable distribution of doctors in Thailand: four 
decades of experience. Hum Resour Health 2003;1:12. 
Willis-Shattuck M, Bidwell P, Thomas S, et al. (2008). Motivation and 
retention of health workers in developing countries: a 
systematic review. BMC Health Serv Res 2008;8:247.  
World Bank (2010).Improving primary health care delivery in Nigeria: 
Evidence from four States. World Bank Working Paper No. 
187,Africa Human Development Series.  
World Health Organization (2006). World health report. Geneva, 2006.  
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                           Abu Leonard 
160 
 
 99 99    
    The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the 
Nigeria Health Care Sector: An Assessment of the 
Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers (HIRD) in Irele 
Local Government Area of Ondo State 
 
 
Abu Leonard 
 
 
Introduction 
The Nigerian health sector is statutory established to provide 
essentially health care services to Nigerians, irrespective of their 
locations within the territorial jurisdiction of Nigeria. 1 The Health Care 
Sector in Nigeria belongs to the concurrent legislative list which 
empowers the Federal, State and Local Government to legislate on 
health matters.  In essence, the Health Care delivery and the National 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Nigeria Health Care Sector: 
161 
 
Health Policy is aimed at addressing effective and efficiency health care 
delivery services in Nigeria. The first record of health care services in 
Nigeria was attributed to the various European expeditions between 
the early and mid- 19th century.2 Modern medical treatment in Nigeria 
was traced to the exploration of Mungo Park and Richard Lander which 
was greatly hampered by disease which led to the introduction of the 
use of Quinine by Dr. Baikie during the 1854 expedition. 3 
There were six national development plan rolled out from 1945 to 
1985.  The first colonial development plan 1945 – 1955, second 
colonial development plan 1956-1962, Second, National development 
plan 1962-1965  second National Development plan 1970-1975, Third 
National Development plan 1975-1980, fourth National Development 
plan 1981 – 1985.  Aside the above developmental plan, the country 
also witnessed a plethora of other developmental policies.  However, 
the third National Development plans of the 1970s seems to have given 
the greatest impetus to the improvement of the Nigerian Health System 
but faced challenges of lack of a comprehensive policy framework for 
sharing health responsibilities among the 3 tiers of Government. 4 The 
era witnessed massive investments in health infrastructure and the 
development of auxiliary health manpower under the ‘Basic Health 
Service Scheme’ (BHSS).  The scheme commenced 3 years before the 
Alma -Ata declaration on Primary Health Care and confirmed 
afterwards aimed at increasing the health coverage, correct mal-
distribution of facilities between the urban and rural areas return 
emphasis on preventive care and establish an appropriate health care 
delivery system in the country. 5 
The two phases of 1986-1992 and 1993-2001 were eras of attempts at 
the national level at developing Primary Health Care with records of 
successes and failures.  Although evidence shows that the Primary 
Health Care is the most cost effective way a country can improve its 
health.6 In pursuance of the Alma-Ata declaration the Nigerian 
Government in 1985 embarked upon a readjustment of the existing 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                           Abu Leonard 
162 
 
National Health Policy by setting up a Committee headed by Professor 
A.O. Lucas.  The Committee finally recommended the establishment of 
Primary Health Care delivery as the key to Nigeria’s health care 
services.7 The National Health Policy declaration of Nigeria was for the 
country to attain a level of health for all citizens by the year 2000 
through the implementation of Primary Health Care.  The following are 
the objectives of Primary Health Care; 
• To increase coverage of Health services extending such services 
to the grass roots especially to rural communities and the urban 
poor who are not well served. 
• To change the orientation of health services with more 
attention to preventive than curative components. 
• To improve efficiency of services and coordination of health 
care delivery at different levels of Government. 
• To involve communities in the health decision making process 
and to reduce to the barest minimum other broad range defects 
in the nation’s health system. 8 
However, the report of the Committee headed by Prof. A.O Lucas did 
not see the light of the day until the federal Government was convinced 
by Prof. Olukoye Ransom-Kuti the then Minister of Health to implement 
recommendations of the Committee.  This however led for the adoption 
of the Primary Health Care delivery in 52 Local Government Areas as 
pilot projects, based on the Alma-Ata declaration of 1978. 9This led to 
the establishment of the National Primary Health Care Delivery Agency 
(NPHCDA) with the primary aim of developing and supervising the 
Primary Health Care delivery in the country. 
 
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Health Initiative 
for Rural Dwellers (HIRD) 
The NYSC initiative to take health care services to the door step of rural 
dwellers was initiated by the Corp Director General Brigadier General 
J.B Olawunmi in 13th November 2014 in Ifelodun L.G.A of Kwara State.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Nigeria Health Care Sector: 
163 
 
The idea was for the utilization of Corp members as volunteers to carry 
out health care services in the rural communities of Nigeria.  The 
impact and success of this project is today unquantifiable putting into 
consideration the impact of the programme on the lives of millions of 
Nigerian who live in rural communities. The NYSC new national 
strategic plan has led  to the coming up of array of innovations one of 
which is the Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers (HIRD) programme 
which was officially rolled out on the 5th of October 2015 in all the 36 
states of the federation.  The Health Initiative for Rural Dweller (HIRD) 
is one of the programme borne out of the vision of the Director 
General.10 The main objective is to deliver health services through 
outreaches to remote, rural neglected communities across the country.  
It is basically designed to strengthen the rural community’s capacity to 
access quality health care services. The programme has been a major 
provider of supplementary health services in the rural communities 
throughout Nigeria, through its policy of posting Corps medical 
personnel to rural communities all the country. 
The rural health scheme is aimed at reaching out to the core rural 
Communities to enhance accessibility to Health Care services by rural 
dwellers.  The scheme is basically about engaging corps medical 
personnel in the sensitization of rural communities on health issues 
such as prevention of diseases, providing first Aid services, monitoring 
of special cases of ailments and making referrals where necessary.  In 
essence, its major task is to help inhabitants of rural communities who 
under normal circumstance are unable to access medical attention as a 
result of factors such as proximity and neglect. The need for the 
initiative was based on the fact that the Government health care 
facilities as well as Faith Based Organizations (FBOs) in the country are 
grossly inadequate to take care of the health needs of the people. 
Also the high mortality rate often identified with rural areas is as a 
result of lack of basic facilities. Hence, this remoteness of the rural 
areas, low income status of the people to conventional health workers 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                           Abu Leonard 
164 
 
makes them resort to herbal and self-medication or in some cases 
attribute some of the ailment to spiritual cases ending in some losing 
their lives. The NYSC with its repertoire  of skilled medical personnel 
such as Medical Doctors, Pharmacists, Nurses, Dentists, 
Ophthalmologists etc. scattered all over the country it is in the best 
position to carry out medical intervention to Nigerians if provided with 
the necessary medical facilities.11 
The Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers (HIRD) scheme since 2014 is in 
partnership with other NGOs, Government agencies, and public spirited 
individuals in some states in Nigeria.  In some states in the South West 
like Lagos, there is collaboration with OMRON Health care Ltd. Also the 
NYSC is partnering with the Lagos State Ministry of Health and Primary 
Health Care Board.  This opened the gate for other States in the country 
to key into the initiative. Some of the states are Cross River State, Kogi 
State, Imo State, Taraba State, Osun State, Ondo State, Ebonyi State and 
the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja.  
 
The Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers in Irele Local Government 
Irele Local Government is found in Ondo State, south western Nigeria.  
It is about a 100kms from Akure the state capital. Irele is in the 
Southern part of the State with the people living on land as they are 
neither too close to the sea nor too far. The Local Government was 
created on the 11th of September 1991 from the defunct Ikale Local 
Government Area.12 It is bounded in the west by Okitipupa Local 
Government, in the east by Edo State, in the north by Odigbo Local 
Government and in the south by EseOdo Local Government Area.  The 
people are noted for trading and farming activities.  Agriculture 
remains a great attraction to majority of people.  Among the populace 
cash crop production as well as sustainer agriculture is commonly 
practiced.  These make the sale of cash crops such as cocoa, kolanut, 
palm oil etc very common among the people.  The inhabitants of Irele 
are essentially Ikale with some Urobo and Edo speaking settlers.  The 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Nigeria Health Care Sector: 
165 
 
people also speak Yoruba and English language fluently.  The people 
are mostly Christian with few Muslims as well as worshippers of 
traditional religion.13 The headquarters of Irele Local Government is 
Ode- Irele. Other towns are Omi, Ajagba, Akotogbo, Iju-Osun, Iyansan, 
Barogbo, Temidire –Ayadi, Lonla, Gbeleju-Loda, Kajola- Lokaka, Kajola 
–Ojurin, Lipanu etc.14 The Local Government has a number of health 
centers which are 10 Public Health Centres and 12 Private Health 
centres. The Local Government Health Care Department encompasses 3 
Comprehensive Health Centers located at Ode- Irele, Ajagba and 
Akotogbo. There are 12 Basic Health centres together with 10 health 
posts. There are also additional mobile Health units. Personnel 
manning the health institutions are Medical Doctors, Nurses, Midwives, 
Community Health Workers, Ward maids and Health Attendants.15 
These primary health centers are being managed by the Irele Local 
Government with the assistance of UNICEF and other World Health 
Agencies. The Ondo State Government established a general hospital at 
Ode- Irele while other privately owned health centers are found across 
the Local Government. Some of the privately owned health centers are 
St Theresa Catholic Health Center, Ode- Irele, St Peter Hospital Ode –
Irele, Olatujoye Health Clinic, Ode- Irele, St Michael (Gbajumo) Health 
Center, Ode- Irele  etc. 
The NYSC Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers (HIRD) programme in 
Irele Local Government area has led to the provision of health care 
delivery to people in different communities in the area through Medical 
outreaches particularly at Ode- Irele.16 The Corps medical personnel in 
the course of the programme engage in health talk and the treatment of 
diseases such as malaria/Lassa fever, HIV/AIDS, Ulcer, diabetes, skin 
diseases, hypertension, etc. 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                           Abu Leonard 
166 
 
Challenges of the Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers (HIRD) in 
Irele Local Government Area. 
From all indications inadequate funding of the Health Care sector is 
largely responsible for the  poor health status of a large percentage of 
rural dwellers. The major factors that affect the overall contribution of 
the health system development includes inter alia; Lack of consumer 
awareness of available health care services, inadequate laboratory 
facilities, lack of basic infrastructure and equipment, poor 
remuneration and motivation, poor health care financing, low 
community participation, lack of means of transportation and 
inadequate manpower etc. The first and major factor is the majority of 
consumers are ignorant or unaware of available services and their 
rights regarding health service delivery. The people in rural 
communities should be enlightened on the HIRD programme to give 
them room for maximum benefit of the programme. This awareness is 
very much needed in some of the communities such as Lipanu, Atorase, 
Iyanse etc.17 An enlightened community holds the key to making health 
for all a reality18 
Similarly, there is lack of basic health equipment in the rural centers in 
the Local Government Area. The lack of these equipments makes it very 
difficult for programme such as HIRD to be fully carried out in some 
rural communities. These equipments include Stethoscope, Kidney 
dish, Microscope etc. Also, there is the absence of basic infrastructure 
and equipment in most of the rural health centers in the Local 
Government which is as result of shortage of resources. The provision 
of health services such as the HIRD programme relies on the 
availability of regular supplies of drugs, electricity, health care 
equipments, as well as appropriate infrastructure at the facility level. 
Facilities without safe water and electricity, non-functioning equipment 
and inadequate deliveries of drugs, diagnostic and other supplies are 
all too common in the rural areas of the Local Government.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Nigeria Health Care Sector: 
167 
 
Poor remuneration and motivation of health workers has had an 
adverse effect on their morale such that many health workers have 
migrated from rural areas. While there is an acute shortage of 
physicians in the rural areas, health workers are also paid meager 
salaries and they work in insecure areas and have heavy workloads, 
but lack the most basic resources, and have little chance of career 
advancement.19  In the words of a health worker at Lipanuit is necessary 
to accord financial rewards to Health Care Workers such as Corp 
medical Personnel who work under difficult conditions especially in 
rural areas20. 
The health sector suffers acute poor financing.  The system should be 
modeled in a way as to remove high financial burden from the people 
when they seek medical treatment. Treatment should be according to 
need and encourage providers to offer an effective mix of curative and 
preventive services. This factor if well addressed will enhance HIRD 
programme in rural communities in the country and Irele Local 
Government in particular.  
For the success of the HIRD programme in Nigeria and Irele Local 
Government in particular there is need for strong community 
participation. Alma-Ata declaration identified community participation 
as the process by which individuals and families assume responsibility 
for their own health and welfare and for those of the community. The 
community needs to participate at village, ward, district or Local 
Government level. Community participation in Nigeria was 
institutionalized through the formation and creation of District 
Development Committee (DDC) and Village Development Committees 
(VDC) (World Bank), 21 to assist in Health care delivery in rural 
communities. 
Poor means of transportation has posed a great handicap to the 
operation of Health Care delivery especially for reaching patients in 
rural communities in Irele Local Government. Outreach to some of the 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                           Abu Leonard 
168 
 
interior communities is quite tasking. A health care worker in Ode- 
Irele acknowledged that lack of transportation for the health centers 
and poor road network is a major handicap in their ability to respond 
to the health needs of the people in places like Lipanu, Atoranse etc.22 
Lack of adequate medical Personnel has been a major problem in 
health care delivery in rural communities in Irele Local Government. In 
most cases there are few medical personnel posted by the NYSC to the 
Local Government. Some of the problems include lack of adequate 
personnel, inequitable distribution of available personnel, inter-cadre 
conflicts, poor job satisfaction, and paucity of accurate data on the 
available staff.23 
 
Prospects of Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers (HIRD) in Irele 
Local Government. 
Having identified the various challenges facing the (HIRD) in Irele Local 
Government, we shall briefly examine the prospects of the programme 
in the area. 
There is a general need for review and restructuring. Public health 
objectives at all levels of Government are influenced by demographic 
and background variables. In view of this, information about 
community felt needs becomes paramount. This is essential in carrying 
out the (HIRD) programme. In addition, new programmes should be 
developed to meet their unfulfilled needs. Some communities in rural 
areas are badly located in terms of physical accessibility.24 The Health 
sector programme such as (HIRD) requires a high degree of community 
participation. It is almost universally acknowledged by national and 
international health care planners that community participation is the 
key to the successful implementation of Health care delivery. The 1978 
Declaration of Alma-Ata identified community participation as 'the 
process by which individuals and families assume responsibility for 
their own health and welfare and for those of the community, and 
develop the capacity to contribute to their community's development25. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Nigeria Health Care Sector: 
169 
 
Community participation has been institutionalized through the 
creation of Village Development Committees (VDC) and District 
Development Committees (DDC) that are grass-roots organizations 
expected to work closely with Local Governments in monitoring and 
supporting primary health care services26. 
With the benefit of Local information, they can assess the specific 
obstacles facing facilities in providing services and they can seek to 
ensure that facilities have the necessary infrastructure, supplies and 
staff motivation to provide the services they are supposed to provide. 
Some of this can be done through volunteer efforts, such as donations 
for buying supplies, but most of the benefits of community 
participation can only be harnessed if there are specific mechanisms in 
place to enable them  do so. For example, whether or not they are 
allowed to raise Local resources will affect their ability to ensure a 
smooth flow of supplies. Similarly, whether or not they have a say in 
the evaluation and rewards/sanctioning of facility staff will affect the 
extent to which they are able to translate their observation of staff 
behavior into improved staff responsiveness to Local needs. 
Capacity building of corps medical personnel with the assistance of 
partners in the health care sector is essential in the success of the 
Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers (HIRD) programme. This is to equip 
the medical personnel with the necessary requirements for the field 
work especially as it is to be carried out in rural communities. This will 
enable the medical to benefit from assistance from other private and 
public partners in the health sector. Such collaboration can be in the 
area of provision of drugs, mobility, etc. The Corps medical personnel 
are to embark on advocacy visits to rural communities to find out their 
health challenges and needs as well as seek their cooperation in the 
course of the exercise in the communities. This is to ensure a hitch- free 
exercise in the communities. Such advocacy visits are made to the 
traditional rulers, political office holders, religious leaders etc as their 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                           Abu Leonard 
170 
 
cooperation is a necessity for the success of the programme. This visit 
enables the medical personnel to get acquainted with the health needs 
of the people of the community.   
There is a need for increase awareness of the public in rural areas 
about health problems. This leads to mobilization of community 
resources and greater control over social, political, economic and 
environmental factors which affect global health.27 To enhance the 
utilization of the health services by people, it is most important that 
they should recognize the need for such services. This need will only be 
felt if they start to value health as a worthwhile asset28. For this, they 
need adequate, relevant, scientific information and education about 
health, disease and hazardous environments29 . Maximum efforts should 
be made to study the beliefs and practices about health and disease 
prevailing among different tribes and population groups. Traditional 
healers serve as the best source of information in this regard. Practices 
should be categorized into those that are clearly beneficial or clearly 
harmful. The information provided should be expressed in simple but 
quantitative form, starting from simple matters, such as personal 
hygiene, and gradually progressing towards more comprehensive 
health education, fostering behavioral changes and community action 
for health.30 The language for communication should be the same as 
that of the Local people, audiovisual aids used must be produced 
Locally and be appropriate, and finally the educational program should 
be carried out by trained and experienced personnel from the Locality 
(World Health Organization, 1991). 
Outreach by volunteer corps medical personnel is crucial for the 
success of the HIRD programme. The volunteer corps members to the 
rural communities are empowered with basic amenities such as 
vehicles medical facilities, drugs etc to reach out to the identified 
communities at least once in a week on a rotational basis while 
monitoring and evaluation of the entire programme implementation is 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Nigeria Health Care Sector: 
171 
 
carried out to ensure it meets the intended objectives. The medical 
outreach is an area of human endeavor that remains a reference in 
unity and integration and embraced by all in view of its ability to touch 
the lives of others, give hope to the hopeless and meaning to the life of 
the underprivileged or neglected. The thrust of the initiative is to 
encourage relevant stakeholders support and eventual sustainability. 
Medical outreach is to contribute to mortality reduction and 
sustainable improvement of the health and wellbeing of rural dwellers 
nationwide. 
There is a need for Collaboration between the National Youth Service 
Corps (NYSC) and health care sector which focuses on how to create 
conditions for health care providers everywhere to work together in 
the most effective and efficient way with the aim of producing the best 
health outcomes. Collaboration with other related sectors in the 
improvement of health care delivery as part of total socio-economic 
development is very important. It has been emphasized that no sector 
involved in socio-economic development, especially the health sector, 
can function properly in isolation. Many social factors such as 
education, housing, transport and communications influence, and so 
does economic factors too. Therefore, collaboration with the relevant 
sectors is especially important for worthwhile mutual benefits. 
Collaborative efforts focused on economic development and progress 
leads to better health. Educational institutions play an important role in 
the health status of the community, especially in the field of 
prevention31. 
There is also need to avoid duplication of health related activities. In 
making inter sectoral coordination a reality, efforts should be geared  
demonstrating how ill health and disease are closely related to 
illiteracy, poverty, poor sanitation and environmental conditions, 
among others. Emphasis should be laid on health care that is essential, 
practical, scientifically sound, coordinated, accessible, appropriately 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                           Abu Leonard 
172 
 
delivered, and affordable. One route to achievement of improved health 
outcomes within these parameters is the formation of partnerships. 
Partnerships adopting the philosophy and five principles of primary 
health care (PHC) focus on health promotion and prevention of illness 
and disability, maximum community participation, accessibility to 
health and health services, interdisciplinary and inter-sectoral 
collaboration, and use of appropriate technologies such as resources 
and strategies .32 
Technical appropriateness means that whatever policies and 
procedures are used in the delivery of health care, they should be 
acceptable to all concerned. When introducing any new technology by 
Health Practitioners as may be done during the HIRD programme, the 
authorities must be assured that it will not contravene the beliefs and 
practices of the Local culture. The whole health system should be used 
in a rational way to satisfy the essential health needs of rural people, by 
using methods acceptable to them such as the use of oral rehydration 
fluid in place of intravenous fluid etc. 
Finally, there is a need for proper monitoring and supervision in the 
implementation of the (HIRD) programme scheme in Nigeria. This 
implies that someone higher up the scale should be watching to see 
that someone lower down is performing their job properly.  The fault 
finding traditional method of supervision should be jettisoned. Corps 
medical personnel and Health Care workers should receive more 
guidance or mentoring on how to improve their performance. This will 
bring about the desired result in the Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers 
(HIRD) programme.   For instance, inadequacy in the quality of primary 
health care facilities in Nigeria was felt to be the product of failure in a 
range of quality measures – structural (lack of equipment and essential 
drugs), and process (not using the national case management algorithm 
and lack of a protocol for systematic supervision of health workers). 
Efforts should be put in place to improve the quality and use of primary 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Nigeria Health Care Sector: 
173 
 
health care in Nigeria by focusing not only on providing better 
resources, but also on low-cost, cost-effective measures that address 
the process of service delivery such as supervision.33 
 
Conclusion 
The Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers (HIRD) programme of the 
National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) which was launched in 2014 and 
rolled out across the country have been awesome and the feedback 
garnered nationwide indicates the programme received appreciation 
from state Governments, Local Governments, benefitting communities 
and other stakeholders. The various community heads all expressed 
delight at the choice of their location for the medical outreach and 
appealed that the intervention should be regular and all inclusive. The 
programme on the whole received generous support and hospitality 
gestures from their host communities. The Health Initiative for Rural 
Dwellers (HIRD) is a welcome programme and a major interest to the 
beneficiary communities. The programme intervention received 
support from all and sundry in Irele Local Government area of Ondo 
State. Evidence abound that with better planning, the programme 
support base will be the community itself. The success of the initiative 
will further be enhanced if the communities and the Local Government 
Areas are part of the programme conception at state level and are 
carried along during implementation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                           Abu Leonard 
174 
 
References 
1. The Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 as 
amended in 2011 
2. M. Rao and E. Pilot “The Missing Link and the Role of Primary 
Health Care in Global Health” in Global Health Action Vol  7 No 
23693 2014  pg 9-12 
3. B. Starfield et al “Contribution of Primary Health Care to Health 
Systems and Health” in Milbank Quarterly Vol 83, No 3 2005 pg 
457-502 
4. C. Ekwempu et al “Structural Adjustment and  Health in Africa” 
Lancet 1990 ;336: pg 56-57 
5. Federal Government of Nigeria, “National Guidelines for the 
Development of Primary Health Care System in Nigeria” 4th 
Edition Abuja NPHCDA 2012 
6. J. F Lawn et al “ Alma- Ata 30 Years on: revolutionary , relevant 
and time to revitalize” Lancet 2008 ; 372 :917-927 
7. B. S  Aregbesola and S .M Khan  Primary Health Care in Nigeria 
pg 10 
8. M.Cueto” The Origins of Primary Health Care and the Selective 
Primary Health” (http://www. 
Unxi.nim.nih.gov/pmc/articles/pmc1448553. 
9. J. H Bryant “Health and the Developing World”. New York 
Cornel University Press 1969. 
10. NYSC News: A Journal of The NYSC Directorate Headquarters, 
OCDC 37,2015Pg 31. 
11. NYSC News: A Journal ofThe NYSC Directorate Headquarters, 
OCDC 37,2015Pg32. 
12. Oral Interview with OluwayemisiAyenowen 40 Civil Servant 
Ode- Irele 
13. A. I. Adejoh “IreleLocal Government in Perspective: Dynamics of 
a Positive Change”Temple Press Ltd, Lagos, 2005pg 18. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Nigeria Health Care Sector: 
175 
 
14. :A. I. Adejoh “Irele Local Government in Perspective: Dynamics 
of a Positive Change”. Temple Press Ltd, Lagos,2005pg 17. 
15. Oral Interview with MrsOripinyeFolake Age 40 Health Worker 
At Ode- Irele on 24/2/2012. 
16. Oral Interview with MrsAlabaomoneso Age 30 Health Worker 
At Ode- Lipanu on 25/2/2021. 
17. Oral Interview with MrsOripinyeFolake, Age 40 Health Worker 
At Ode-Irele on 24/2/2021. 
18. I. S. Abdulraheem, M.O. Amodu, et al “Primary Health Care 
Services in Nigeria: Critical Issues and Strategies for enhancing 
the use by the Rural Communities”, Journal of  Public Health, 
Epidem4(l), 2012 Pg 5-13. 
19. E. Mike, “Community Participation in PHC Services in Nigeria”. 
Availableat www.ng.org/  
20. Oral interview with MrsAlabaOmonesoAge 30 Health Worker at 
Lipanu 25/2/2021 
21. M.D. Gupta , S. Khemani: Decentralized Delivery of Primary 
Health Care Services in Nigeria: Survey Evidence from the 
States of Lagos and Kogi, Washington, World Bank 2004 Pg 8-
19. 
22. Oral Interview with MrAkibaminiIgbekele Age 45 Health 
Worker At Ode- Irele1/3/2021 
23. Oral Interview with MrsAlabaOmoneso Age 30 Health Worker 
at Lipanu 1/3/2021 
24. A. J. Abiodun  “Patients Satisfaction with Quality Attributes of 
Primary Health Care Services in Nigeria”.in  Journal of Health 
Management 12(l) 2010 pg 39-54. 
25. Alma –Ata Primary Health Care, Geneva, World Health 
Organization (WHO) 1978. 
26. Alma –Ata Primary Health Care, Geneva, World Health 
Organization (WHO) 1978. 
27. I. S Abdulraheem ,M.O. Amodu, et al “Primary Health Care 
Services in Nigeria: Critical Issues and Strategies for Enhancing 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                           Abu Leonard 
176 
 
the use by the rural communities “.Journal of Public 
Health,Epidem 4(l) 2012,Pg 5-13S 
28. D. Morley and G. Williams “Practicing Healthfor All”, Oxford, 
Oxford Medical  Pub. Pg 319-326. 
29. A. D. Lucas and H.M. Gilles “A Short Textbook of Preventive 
Medicine for the Tropics” Pg 270-323. 
30. D. Morley and G. Williams “Practicing Health for All” 
Oxford,OxfordMedical PUB 1983   Pg 319-326. 
31. J. Last, and  M. Rosenaue “Public Health and Preventive 
Medicine” 11th Ed 1984                  Pg 1647-1658 
32. I. S .Hegazy, et al “Utilization of Maternal Health Services : A 
comparative Study between Residents and Nomads” in Saudi 
Medical Journal 13 (6), 1992 Pg 552-554. 
33. S. Odikpa, “Primary Health Care Delivery in Igalaland,1988-
2015” M.A Thesis submitted to the Department of History and 
International Studies,Kogi State University Anyigba 2020 Pg 
117. 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers 
177 
 
    11 1100 00    
    The NYSC and Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers 
 
 
Usman Abubakar Lamido 
 
 
Introduction 
Faced with a breakdown of social harmony following the 30 month 
Civil War (1967-1970) which followed the unsuccessful attempt by the 
then Eastern Region to secede from the country, the then Federal 
Military Government (FMG) realized that having won the war, it was 
imperative that the peace of solid and voluntary national unity be won. 
It was a clear realization that, even though the constituent parts of this 
multi-ethnic and multi-religious country have been forced to stay 
together as they were forced in 1914 by the British to come together 
true feelings of loyalty and solidarity that produce national cohesion 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                                    U.A. Lamido 
178 
 
and unity upon which national progress and growth are predicated, 
could only be an outcome of a deliberate social process.1 
For a country that had already gone to war, the way to avoid another 
relapse into the ugly past was to device new means to unite the people 
in common allegiance to the nation state through service. Given the 
absence of a common ancestry and common national mythologies 
providing the primordial loyalty upon which nations are often based, 
national cohesion in Nigeria has to be based on some civic ideal or 
national imaginary. The challenge that Nigeria, with an estimated 374 
ethnic groups, faced in the immediate post Civil War period therefore 
was how ‘to engage in deliberate social engineering, designing 
programmes and pursuing policies meant to promote national unity, 
de-emphasize points of discord amongst the constituent groups, and 
foster greater interethnic understanding and harmony. The citizenship 
and youth training scheme in Nigeria dubbed the National Youth 
Service Corps (NYSC) was started against this backdrop. The fact that 
the programme was specifically targeted at ‘youths’ points to the fact 
that the emergent nation-state was investing in its future, particularly 
in the context of the unsavory past. As was recognized at the start of the 
program, ‘youths constitute a dominant force for national mobilization 
and growth and as such, have a crucial role to play in the all important 
task of nation-building’. Incidentally, the calls for youth service that 
presaged this scheme germinated in the very ambience of hostilities. 
Initially, many youth groups asked for a national youth scheme 
beginning with provision of relief to the war-damaged and eventually 
evolving into a permanent agency for national mobilization.2 
With the end of the war in sight in 1969, the Committee of Vice 
Chancellors (presidents of universities) called for the 
                                                           1 A. Adeshida, ‘The Fading Glory of the NYSC’, Vanguard, September, 15, 1997, p. 
5. 2 ‘NYSC, the Bond of Unity, Clocks 25’, GbengaOsoba, et al, The Punch, Lagos, May 
25, 1998, p. 11. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers 
179 
 
institutionalization of a one-year national service scheme for 
undergraduates after the completion of their first year to “inculcate the 
spirit of service and patriotism” and to promote national unity.3  This 
soon became the subject of a major national debate in Nigeria. At the 
close of the war, as the first head of the NYSC averred, it became 
“abundantly clear to discerning observers of the Nigerian political 
scene that to build enduring national unity, Nigerian youths from all 
ethnic groups (a) ought to be mobilized and put in the forefront of the 
task of nation building and integration; and (b) patriotism, dedication 
to the Nigerian nationhood and mutual respect for and understanding 
of the different ethnic groups and constitute the people of Nigeria”4 
The military head of state, General Yakubu Gowon, following the 
cessation of hostilities, announced in a spirit of magnanimity that there 
was “no victor, no vanquished” in the war, and consequently embarked 
on a programme captured as the “Three Rs”: Rehabilitation, 
Reconstruction and Reconciliation. As Iyizoba5 describes it, ‘in the 
interest of fostering national unity, the Nigerian government sought to 
ease the tensions and animosities among the tribal groups by creating a 
national unity that would supersede ethnic and tribal loyalties and 
weaving a spirit of nationalism among groups whose relations were 
traditionally antagonistic.’ In the context of this, Gowon proposed the 
establishment of the National Youth Service Scheme. 
Since its inception, the NYSC has been committed towards 
complementing health workers in Nigeria especially in the area of 
health service delivery, this they carry out through their Community 
Development Services. They rendered support to the health sectors, 
                                                           3 National Youth Service Corps: Its Genesis and Formative Years’, by Adebayo 
Adedeji, in A Compendium of the National Youth Service Corps Scheme: Ten Years 
of Service to the Nation, p. 32. 4The Guardian, ‘Revisiting the NYSC Scheme’, (editorial), September 6, 2002, p. 12. 5G. Enegwea and G. Umoden, NYSC: Twenty years of National Service, (Abuja: 
Gabumo Pub, 1993). 10. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                                    U.A. Lamido 
180 
 
especially in the area of sensitization and campaigns, support during 
community mobilization and convening of children and youths for 
vaccination especially the polio vaccination and other related 
vaccination like the acute flaccid paralysis. In a bid to fulfil its mandate 
on Health, the NYSC created an initiative which is the Health Initiative 
for Rural Dweller (HIRD). A programme that aims to provide timely 
health intervention to the large population of Nigerians in the rural 
areas. By this the NYSC is not only extending its health mandate to the 
rural dwellers alone, but also, to the poor at the grassroots level. This 
study therefore, seeks to examine the NYSC and the health initiative 
programmes among the rural dwellers. 
 
Conceptual Clarification 
This section focuses on the clarification of salient terms that will aid in 
understanding the work. The concept of health initiative and rural 
dwellers shall be clarified in this section. 
Youth Service: Youth service refers to non-military, engagement of 
youths in an organised or structured activity that contributes 
significantly to the local, national, or world community. Youth service is 
widely regarded and valued by the society, mostly their activities is 
with minimal or no compensation. Youth service avails the opportunity 
for youth development, youth voice and reflection. This may take the 
form of a youth programmes where young people are recruited, offered 
leadership opportunities, participate in activities that improve the 
community, and are trained and mentored. The most common age 
group defined as ‘youth’ is 15-30 years of age, and in other parlance, 
15-40 years of age. The United Nations defines youth as 15-24 years of 
age. The duration of most youths in service for either their community 
or their nation depends on the settings they found themselves in. Some 
communities regard long-range youth service as being from six months 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers 
181 
 
to two years of service; however, this time range can vary with each 
country’s national youth service policy.6 
Health Initiative: Health initiatives are humanitarian, organizational 
or institutional initiative that raise and provide additional funds for 
infectious diseases such as Aids, Tuberculosis, And Malaria– 
For Immunization and for strengthening health systems in developing 
countries. The amount of political priority given to Health Initiatives, 
especially, global health initiatives varies between national and 
international governing powers. Though evidence shows that there 
exists an inequity between resource allocation for initiatives 
concerning issues such as child immunization, HIV/AIDS, and family 
planning in comparison to initiatives for high-burden disorders such as 
malnutrition and pneumonia, the source of this variance is unknown 
due to lack of systematic research pertaining to this subject.7 
The amount of attention a given initiative receives is considerably 
dependent on the power and authority of actors connected to the issue, 
the power and impact of ideas defining and describing the issue, the 
power of political contexts framing the environments in which the 
actors operate to address the issue, as well as the weight and power of 
issue characteristics indicating the severity of the issue (i.e. statistical 
indicators, severity metrics, efficacy of proposed interventions, etc.). 
Factors including objective measurability, scalability of the issue and 
proposed interventions, ability to track and monitor progress, risk of 
perceived harm, as well as simplicity and affordability of proposed 
solutions all contribute to the degree to which a given global initiative 
is likely to receive political attention.8  
                                                           6E.E Okafor, “Youth Unemployment and Implications for Stability of Democracy in 
Nigeria”, Journal of Sustainable Development in Africa, 2011, vol. 13(1), p.358-373. 7 E.E Okafor, “Youth Unemployment and Implications… 8 E.E Okafor, “Youth Unemployment and Implications… 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                                    U.A. Lamido 
182 
 
Rural Areas: The terms "rurality" and "rural areas" have an apparent 
clarity. They are immediately understood by everybody, because they 
evoke physical, social and cultural concept which is counterpart of 
"urban". In reality, however, drawing a precise line of demarcation 
between rural and urban components of a population is very difficult. 
This is due to the social, cultural, political and economic perspectives 
through which they are viewed. There is therefore no one universal 
definition of a rural area.9  
Faced with the difficulties in the definition of rural areas, census bodies 
at the national levels, international organizations and scholars in 
various disciplines have resorted to the use of selected approaches in 
their definitions. These definitions are, however, also known to have 
limitations. To overcome the limitations, researchers and international 
organizations have developed some typologies and indicators in order 
to better understand the dynamics of rural areas. This is with a view to 
developing relevant policies for rural areas. More importantly the 
purpose is to create territorial and rural indicators that can be used to 
compare sub- national territories.10  
 
The NYSC and Health Care Delivery: A Historical Note 
The NYSC scheme has impressively enhanced the Government’s plan of 
making adequate healthcare available to all Nigerians, especially those 
residing in the rural communities. One notable area where the NYSC 
has played a key role is in the supply of qualified health personnel like 
doctors, pharmacist, veterinary doctors, dentists, nurses and so on. 
Through its posting policy, the scheme has ensured that each local 
government area is allocated a minimum of two doctors and other 
corps health personnel. The resultant effect is that most rural health 
                                                           9 I.A Madu, “The structure and pattern of rurality in Nigeria” Geo Journal (2010) 
75:175-184 DOI 10.1007/s 10708-009-9282-9 10 I.A Madu, “The structure and pattern of rurality 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers 
183 
 
institutions that hitherto suffered dearth of skilled personnel, now 
enjoy free and dependable services.11 
Furthermore, the NYSC through their community development 
services, the corps members have also helped in propagating 
preventive healthcare delivery systems. These they do through 
immunization campaigns, campaigns against Aids and drug abuse. They 
also pilot projects for improved waste disposal and water purification. 
These are among the many health promotional endeavours for which 
many outstanding corps members have been rewarded over the past 
years.12 
 
NYSC Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers 
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) was established in 1973 with 
the mandate to raise a class of patriotic, morally and physically 
disciplined Nigerian Youths who graduated from Universities and 
Polytechnics to undertake the national service. During the mandatory 
one year service, corps members live among and within the host 
communities facilitating unity and integration as well as championing 
community development by executing projects jointly with the people 
of their host communities.  A major impact of these development 
programmes is in health care delivery. The NYSC’s mandate on health is 
one of the paramount as they have engaged in various forms of health 
delivery programmes, sensitization on health issues, awareness and 
campaigns.13  The Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers (HIRD) is one 
among other programmes designed to provide timely health 
intervention to the large population of Nigerians in the rural areas. The 
                                                           11 G. Enegwea and G. Umoden, NYSC: Twenty years of National Service, (Abuja: 
Gabumo Pub, 1993). 163 12 G. Enegwea and G. Umoden, NYSC: Twenty years of National Service… 164. 13  “National Youth Service Corps Health InnitiativeFor Rural Dwellers”, 
https://nysc.gov.ng/downloads/HIRD_PROFILE.pdf, Accessed 19/3/2021.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                                    U.A. Lamido 
184 
 
outcome of this would mean that health care delivery would extend to 
the poorest in the communities.14 
The Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers (HIRD) is an innovation of the 
Director-General of the National Youth Service Corps, it conducts 
outreach to core rural areas, and this is in order to enhance the 
accessibility of health care services by rural dwellers. This programme 
engages corps medical personnel in the sensitization of the core rural 
dwellers on disease prevention, provision of first aid services, 
monitoring of cases and provision of appropriate referral when 
necessary. The programme mobilizes volunteer corps medical 
personnel to the rural dwellers who under normal circumstances will 
not be able to access medical attention as a result of neglect and 
remoteness of their location.15 
The rationale behind its establishment are as follows: firstly: The 
health care facilities provided by government, private and faith based 
organizations in the country are grossly inadequate to take care of the 
health needs of the populace. These facilities are either present in name 
or completely absent in most rural communities. The high mortality 
rate often associated with rural areas is a product of the abject lack of 
infrastructures/facilities. Hence the low income status of the populace 
and the unattractiveness of the area to conventional health workers, 
makes many of them resort to herbal medication or attribute even mild 
ailments to external spiritual causes and so lose their lives or become 
permanently impaired. The scheme has a crop of energetic, skilled 
volunteer corps medical personnel (medical doctors, pharmacists, 
nurses, laboratory scientists, physiotherapists, dentists, 
ophthalmologists, etc) who serve as intervention agents in the all the 
774 Local Government Areas of the country. They are disposed to 
                                                           14“National Youth Service Corps Health InnitiativeFor Rural Dwellers”, 
https://nysc.gov.ng/downloads/HIRD_PROFILE.pdf, Accessed 19/3/2021.  15National Youth Service Corps Health InnitiativeFor Rural Dwellers”, 
https://nysc.gov.ng/downloads/HIRD_PROFILE.pdf, Accessed 19/3/2021.   
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers 
185 
 
providing correct information and medical palliatives to Nigerians in 
every nook and cranny of the country if provided with the logistics and 
medical facilities.16 
The strategies employed by the NYSC in running the programme 
includes:  
a. Capacity building of Corps medical personnel with the 
assistance of partners in the health sector (public/private).  
b. Advocacy/need assessment visits to communities to find 
out their felt health needs and seek for their cooperation.  
c. Outreaches by team of volunteer corps medical personnel 
to rural communities. These volunteers will be empowered 
with basic amenities (vehicles, medical facilities, drugs, etc.) 
to reach out to identified communities at least once a week 
on a rotational basis.  
d.  Monitoring and evaluation of the entire programme 
implementation.  
The HIRD Programme of the NYSC has the following strengths:  
i. NYSC has skilled medical personnel (doctors, nurses, 
pharmacists, etc.) who are corps members that are 
available for the programme.  
ii. Corps members are spread throughout the Federation and 
are ready to carry out the visions of the scheme.  
iii. Corps members have basic intellectual capacity requiring 
minimum training to pass correct information and give 
minimum skill to rural people.  
iv.  Corps members belong to a centralized organization 
making Monitoring, Evaluation and feedback process 
relatively easy  
                                                           16 Webmaster, “NYSC Flags-Off Health Initiative in Kwara”, dailytrust.com, Nov. 14, 
2014. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                                    U.A. Lamido 
186 
 
iv. All the health related disciplines are in the scheme and can 
be easily mobilized as national response to the issue of 
healthy living in the rural areas.17 
 
Activities of the Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers 
The Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers was officially flagged-off in 
Igbo Owu community in Ifelodun Local Government Area of Kwara 
state on Thursday, 13th November, 2014. The programme which 
attracted dignitaries from all works of live in Kwara state was flagged 
of by the then Director General of NYSC, Brig Gen JB Olawumi. The 
ceremony was witnessed by the representative of the Executive 
Governor of Kwara State, Honourable Saheed Popoola, Hon. 
Commissioner for Youth and Sports. Following the flag off of the 
programme in Kwara state, the HIRD team in the state has carried out 
four other follow up outreaches to Igbo Owu community. The team 
attended to the health needs of 527 persons. 520 were treated and 
some being followed up, while two were referred. Cases investigated 
include – malaria, hypertension, typhoid, blood sugar level, arthritis, 
upper respiratory infection, peptic ulcer.18 
National Youth Service Corps in Lagos state, partnered with the Lagos 
state Ministry for Health, Primary Health Care Board, Omron 
Healthcare Ltd Nigeria and Ministry of Rural Development to Flag-off 
Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers on Tuesday 3rd February. 2015. 
Present at the flagging-off ceremony were Egan Oromi, Itogbesa, Ojota, 
Ishagira and Ese-Ofin communities under Otto-Awori Local Council 
Development Area (L.C.D.A.). The outreach programme was held at 
Ese–Offin community Primary School. Residents of the five 
communities namely Egan-Oromi, Itogbesa, Ojota, Ishagira and Ese-
Ofin communities under Otto-Awori L.C.D.A converged at Ese-offin for 
                                                           17 Webmaster, “NYSC Flags-Off Health Initiative in Kwara”, dailytrust.com, Nov. 14, 
2014. 18 Nation, “NYSC begins Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers in Ogun”… 2017. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers 
187 
 
this exercise. However it is important to note that these communities 
are located on an island. The only means of transportation to the 
nearest health care facility which is in the city is via a Canoe/Boat.19 
Kwara and Lagos state are the two states that the activities of HIRD 
programme first reached. This is just like dropping a pint of oil in an 
ocean. The health care needs of the less privileged and rural dweller in 
the country is overwhelming and the NYSC, though has the human 
resources to reach out to them all, does not have the logistics and 
material resources. The focus of this programme, however, has been to 
reach out to as many rural communities in all the states and FCT. In 
order to promote the quality of life of people, especially the rural 
dwellers residing in remote communities, by taking health service 
delivery to their door steps, the programme is also supported by 
partnership from organizations, for instance, in the area of  provision of 
logistics (Vehicles), consulting equipments and basic drugs (and 
medical consumables) for the treatment of the following ailments: like 
malaria, high blood pressure, control of sugar level, eye, ear and throat 
and anti-biotic etc.20  The below table is a representation of the 
activities of the HIRD as it affects the rural community. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           19National Youth Service Corps Health InnitiativeFor Rural Dwellers”, 
https://nysc.gov.ng/downloads/HIRD_PROFILE.pdf, Accessed 19/3/2021.   20O. Lawal, “Kebbi NYSC Launches Health Initiatives for Rural Dwellers”, 
www.sunnewsonline.com, October 12, 2017. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                                    U.A. Lamido 
188 
 
Table 10.1: NYSC HIRD Activities in rural communities 
S/N States Activities  Remarks 
1. Kwara The NYSC D.G Brig. Gen. 
J. Olawumi launched the 
HIRD, by soliciting 
support from Kwara 
State Government and 
other State Govts over 
this initiative.21 
In Nov. 14, 2014 the 
Scheme launched the 
initiative at Igbo 
Owu, Kwara State. 
2. Kebbi The NYSC in Kebbi State 
launched HIRD in Folade 
village, Argugu L.G.A and 
gave free medical 
treatment for about 500 
residents.22 
In October 2017, the 
Scheme marks the 
occasion of the HIRD 
with the support of 
Kebbi State Govt and 
the NYSC D.G, Brig. 
Gen. S. Kazaure 
3. Ogun The scheme had 
beneficiaries numbering 
over 300, which had 
checks to verify their 
blood pressure, blood 
sugar level and eye 
condition.23  
The HIRD was 
flagged-off on 12th of 
October 2017 in 
Ogun State. The D.G 
then was Brig. Gen. S. 
Kazaure. 
4. Nasarawa Over 500 residents of the 
comty (Gudi) received 
treatment for 
Hypertension, Malaria, 
In 2020, the HIRD 
showed sensitivity in 
delivering health 
service for over 500 
                                                           21 Webmaster, “NYSC Flags-Off Health Initiative in Kwara”, dailytrust.com, Nov. 14, 
2014. 22 O. Lawal, “Kebbi NYSC Launches Health Initiatives for Rural Dwellers”, 
www.sunnewsonline.com, October 12, 2017. 23 The Nation, “NYSC begins Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers in Ogun”… 2017. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers 
189 
 
Typhoid, Ulcer, Sugar 
levels and Hepatitis.24 
rural poor. Brig. Gen. 
Ibrahim is the 
current D.G 
Source: Author’s Compilation 
The table above showed the contribution of the Health Initiative of 
Rural Dwellers (HIRD) on rural communities. While the initiative was 
inaugurated in 2015, the D.G Brig. Gen. J. Olawumi, had launched 
sensitization workshop in Kwara State, a year before its establishment. 
The scheme has benefited several Nigerians, especially those in core 
rural community or areas not assessable to health care facilities. This 
initiative further displayed its readiness to meet public health care 
need in case of a major disease outbreak in the country. 
 
Impact of HIRD on the Health Care Delivery in the Rural Areas 
The Health Initiative for rural dwellers has impacted the rural 
communities positively, even though the scope was narrow from its 
inception, they have been able to widen their scope to include other 
rural communities whom were hitherto not in the scope of HIRD. HIRD 
has been able to make some viable input in the health structure and 
development in rural communities. The HIRD has been able to provide 
health assistance to these rural communities. Sensitization and 
awareness was also carried out to ensure that there is adequate 
provision of health in the communities. Also, specialist in the medical 
field (majorly corps members) including medical doctors, Nurses, 
pharmacist were posted to these various rural communities and they 
have been very helpful to health awareness creation in these rural 
communities and have complemented the efforts of the already 
stationed medical personnel that are on ground in these communities. 
 
                                                           24O. Babalola, “NYSC Medical Team Treats 500 Rural Dwellers in Nasarawa State”, 
www.nnn.ng, January 20, 2020. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                                    U.A. Lamido 
190 
 
Conclusion 
The importance given to the health sector by the NYSC is worthy to be 
mentioned. Since its establishment, the issue of healthy living of people 
especially as it relates to the aspect of its community development 
service. The NYSC HIV/AIDS vanguards over the years have carried out 
serious sensitization and campaign against the spread of HIV AIDS. 
Their activities came to the limelight when they began to collaborate 
with UNICEF to carry out sensitization in communities, training of 
educators and the carrying out of school awareness on HIV Aids, its 
spread and control in community secondary schools in most rural 
communities. The coming of the HIRD in 2014 is a further step by the 
NYSC to engage rural communities and the rural dwellers on the 
importance of healthy living in their various communities.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers 
191 
 
Bibliography 
 
‘NYSC, the Bond of Unity, Clocks 25’, GbengaOsoba, et al, The Punch, 
Lagos, May 25, 1998, p. 11. 
“National Youth Service Corps Health InnitiativeFor Rural Dwellers”, 
https://nysc.gov.ng/downloads/HIRD_PROFILE.pdf, Accessed 
19/3/2021.  
 “National Youth Service Corps Health InnitiativeFor Rural Dwellers”,  
Adeshida, A ‘The Fading Glory of the NYSC’, Vanguard, September, 15, 
1997, p. 5. 
G. Enegwea and G. Umoden, NYSC: Twenty years of National Service, 
(Abuja: Gabumo Pub, 1993). 10. 
https://nysc.gov.ng/downloads/HIRD_PROFILE.pdf, Accessed 
19/3/2021.   
Lawal,. O “Kebbi NYSC Launches Health Initiatives for Rural Dwellers”, 
www.sunnewsonline.com, October 12, 2017. 
Madu, A. I “The structure and pattern of rurality in Nigeria” Geo Journal 
(2010) 75:175-184 DOI 10.1007/s 10708-009-9282-9 
Nation, “NYSC begins Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers in Ogun”… 
2017. 
National Youth Service Corps: Its Genesis and Formative Years’, by 
Adebayo Adedeji, in A Compendium of the National Youth 
Service Corps Scheme: Ten Years of Service to the Nation, p. 32. 
O. Babalola, “NYSC Medical Team Treats 500 Rural Dwellers in 
Nasarawa State”, www.nnn.ng, January 20, 2020. 
Okafor, E.E. “Youth Unemployment and Implications for Stability of 
Democracy in Nigeria”, Journal of Sustainable Development in 
Africa, 2011, vol. 13(1), p.358-373. 
The Guardian, ‘Revisiting the NYSC Scheme’, (editorial), September 6, 
2002, p. 12. 
The Nation, “NYSC begins Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers in 
Ogun”… 2017. 
Webmaster, “NYSC Flags-Off Health Initiative in Kwara”, dailytrust.com, 
Nov. 14, 2014. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                            Itodo, Unekwu Friday 
192 
 
 1111 1111    
    An Analysis NYSC and Free Medical Care in Nigeria 
 
 
Itodo, Unekwu Friday 
 
 
Introduction 
Nigeria's health care system faces notable challenges; poor healthcare 
infrastructures, lack or inadequate funding, and poor policymaking and 
implementation which leads to underinvestment in the healthcare 
system. These challenges among others in the Nigerian healthcare 
system contribute to failure in the healthcare system.1 Free Medical 
Care Programme has been a limited thing in Nigeria especially in the 
                                                           1Akunne, Okonta, Ukwe, M. O, M.J, C.V "Satisfaction of Nigerian patients with 
health services: a protocol for systematic review" (November 2019).  
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

An Analysis NYSC and Free Medical Care in Nigeria 
193 
 
rural area where these services are in dire need. Free Medical Care 
Programme is often initiated, targeting at those vulnerable groups in 
the society which includes children less than 6 years, adults over 60 
years, pregnant women requiring Caesarian Section, emergencies 
within 24 hours, inmates of Old people home, Remand home and 
Motherless babies home as well as retired orthodox clergymen and 
their wives, members of the Nigerian Legion and wives of fallen 
Soldiers. 
In other climes, Free Medical Care Programme also foots the bills of 
patients approved for overseas medical treatment. All categories of 
diseases are catered for as long as able and capable hands and facilities 
are available. These services are needed in Nigeria because of the 
incessant strikes of medical staff in government hospitals and high fees 
charged by Private Hospitals, to continue Medical Care for patients 
during a period of crisis. Although, healthcare intervention programme, 
especially the non-governmental organisation is coming up to extend 
medical outreach to offer special medical treatments at no cost to 
indigent people of the area suffering one ailment or the other. Medical 
volunteers ensure that all people who attend their programme get a 
hygiene care package, which will include nutrition gift packs. Tests are 
conducted and the experts see the patients and give out drugs to those 
diagnosed with any ailment. 
The volunteer Corps members provide free drugs and medical services 
to poor elderly men and women who are either diabetic or 
hypertensive or both every month. With these free monthly drugs, the 
poor elderly people with hypertension and diabetes will be able to 
leave a quality life. In Nigeria, many elderly poor people who are either 
diabetic or hypertensive have no access to their basic drugs and 
healthcare services. Most of them are pensioners who have not 
received their pension in months they cannot afford the drugs when it 
is available. Hence some have developed complications from these 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                            Itodo, Unekwu Friday 
194 
 
diseases, while some have died from the resultant effects of these 
diseases. Corps members have come in to solve the problem by 
providing free hypertensive and diabetic drugs to these poor elderly 
men and women. They are also provided with free medical services 
such as regular clinical evaluations in the organization Health facilities. 
 
Conceptual Clarification 
Medical Care 
The term medical comes from Latin medicus, physician, from medērī, to 
heal.2 from Latin medicus physician, surgeon, from medērī to heal.3 It is 
of or relating to the science or practice of medicine; about or requiring 
treatment by other than surgical means;4  about or indicating the state 
of one's health.5  The term care on the other hand is a concerned or 
troubled state of mind, as that arising from serious responsibility; 
worry; Close attention, as in doing something well or avoiding harm;6 
or painstaking or watchful attention or responsibility for or attention to 
health, well-being, and safety.7 It refers to the function of watching, 
guarding, or overseeing. It is the process of protecting someone or 
something and providing what that person or thing needs.8 
So, medical care is the preservation of mental and physical health by 
preventing or treating illness through services offered by the health 
profession. Care, tending, attention, aid –the work of providing 
                                                           2American Heritage. Dictionary of the English Language, Fifth Edition. Houghton 
Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Company. 2016 3Collins English Dictionary – Complete and Unabridged, 12th Edition 2014. 
HarperCollins Publishers. 2014 4www.dictionary.com/browse/medical 5Random House Kernerman Webster's College Dictionary, K Dictionaries Ltd. 
Copyright Random House, Inc. 2010  6www.thefreedictionary.com/Care 7www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/care 8dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/english/care 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

An Analysis NYSC and Free Medical Care in Nigeria 
195 
 
treatment for or attending to someone or something; It is also meeting 
people’s health needs through comprehensive promotive, protective, 
preventive, curative, rehabilitative, and palliative care throughout the 
life course, strategically prioritizing key health care services aimed at 
individuals and families through primary care and the population 
through public health functions as the central elements of integrated 
health services.9 An examination of a person's body by 
a doctor to discover if that person is healthy, sometimes done before 
a person can be accepted for a particular job.10  of relating to medicine, 
or for the treatment of disease or injury, an examination done by 
a doctor to check someone's health.11 
Medical Care is the preservation of mental and 
physical health by preventing or treating illnesses through services 
offered by the health profession and its staff. Health care includes all 
reasonable and necessary medical aid, medical examinations, 
medical treatments, medical diagnoses, medical evaluations, and 
medical services. The right to health care is considered one of the 
human rights with international human rights law as well as social 
security.12 Efforts made to maintain or restore physical, mental, or 
emotional well-being especially by trained and licensed professionals 
—usually hyphenated when used attributively.13 It can also be seen as 
the prevention, treatment, and management of illness and the 
preservation of mental and physical well-being through the services 
                                                           9world health organisation. Primary health care.2019 www.who.int/news-
room/fact-sheets/detail/primary-health-care 10Definition of medical from the Cambridge Advanced Learner's Dictionary & 
Thesaurus © Cambridge University Press) dictionary.cambridge.org/us/dictionary 
/english/medical 11Definition of medical from the Cambridge Academic Content Dictionary © 
Cambridge University Press) 12wikipedia.org/wiki/Health_care 13www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/health%20care 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                            Itodo, Unekwu Friday 
196 
 
offered by the medical and allied health professions.14 Any field or 
enterprise concerned with supplying services, equipment, information, 
etc., for the maintenance or restoration of health.15 The ongoing work 
adopts the definition of the Medical Dictionary. According to the 
dictionary, medical care is simply The use of medical skills to benefit a 
patient.16 The services rendered by members of the health professions 
for the benefit of a patient includes: 
 
Primary care 
1.  Services provided by a health care agency that permit a primary 
caregiver temporary relief from caring for an ill individual. 
2.   An intervention defined as the provision of short-term care to 
provide relief for a family caregiver 
3.   Restorative care the level of care that consists of follow-up care 
and rehabilitation to an optimal functional level. 
Secondary care: treatment by specialists to whom a patient has been 
referred by primary care facilities. 
Tertiary care:  the level of care that consists of complex procedures 
given in a health care center that has highly trained specialists and 
often advanced technology.17 
In this case, the members of the National Youth’s Service Corps perform 
the primary care. These include: services provided by a health care 
agency that permit a primary caregiver temporary relief from caring 
for an ill individual, the provision of short-term care to provide relief 
for an individual or family and restorative care the level of care that 
                                                           14American Heritage® Dictionary of the English Language, Fifth Edition. Copyright 
© 2016 by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Company. Published by 
Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Company 15Random House Kernerman Webster's College Dictionary, © 2010 K Dictionaries 
Ltd. Copyright 2005, 1997, 1991 by Random House, Inc.  16Medical Dictionary, © 2009 Farlex and Partners 17Segen's Medical Dictionary. Farlex, Inc. 2012. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

An Analysis NYSC and Free Medical Care in Nigeria 
197 
 
consists of follow-up care and rehabilitation to an optimal functional 
level. 
 
The National Youths Service Corps and Free Medical Care in 
Nigeria 
NYSC Community Development Service (CDS) is one of the four (4) 
Cardinal Programmes of NYSC in which Corps members contribute 
positively to the development of their host communities throughout 
the period of national service. It is a year-round affair and through the 
programme members of the Service Corps work with the local 
communities to promote self-reliance by systematically prospecting 
and executing development projects and programme which impact 
positively on the socio-economic development of the host communities. 
Over the years, NYSC Community Development Service (CDS) has been 
faced with numerous challenges arising mainly from poor perception 
and a dearth of knowledge of the Corps members on the objectives of 
CDS. This structured guide of Community Development Service is 
therefore made to give Corps Members explicit insight into what the 
programme is all about and how to successfully participate in the 
programme. 
Community   Development Service (CDS) is the third programme of a 
corp member’s National service year only after Orientation course and 
Primary Assignment (PA). NYSC Community Development Service 
(CDS) is often referred to as secondary assignment and is compulsory 
for every Corps member (group CDS). It is aimed at correcting the 
imbalance in the nation’s rural-urban development    through    the    
various    community    development    programmes executed   by   
Corps   members.   These   programmes   have   helped tremendously   
our communities   in   the   areas   of   education,   health   care   
delivery,   agriculture, communication,  infrastructure,  technology,  
economic  empowerment,  poverty eradication,  social  services, 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                            Itodo, Unekwu Friday 
198 
 
medical care  and  above all national consciousness and  socio-cultural 
regeneration.18 
The national youth service Corps medical CDS has really impacted on 
the lives of the old, children and the deprived in the rural areas of the 
country.  The medical CDSs includes:  
Reproductive Health Group 
Purpose 
• To train and mentor Students 
• To mobilize and strengthen community-based responses  
 
Medical and Health Services Group (Breast Without Spot, Polio Plus, 
etc.) 
Purpose 
• Promotion and provision of Medical Services 
Activities 
• Health outreach 
• First Aid administration. 
• Establishment of Community based clinic 
• Setting up of clinic for the NYSC Secretariat.19 
 
Red Cross CDS 
The Nigerian Red Cross Society (NRCS) was established through an Act 
of the Parliament in 1960. The Act, referred to as the Nigerian Red 
Cross Act of 1960, CAP 324 states in Section 5 (1) that ‘the Society shall 
be recognised by the Government of the Federation as a Voluntary Aid 
Society, auxiliary to the public authorities…’ This shows that the 
organisation is a creation of the Federal Government of Nigeria and 
                                                           18CDS REVIW: NYSC Community Development Service (CDS). 2019. 
nyscblog.com/all-you-need-to-know-about-nysc-community-development-
service-cds/ 1910 best nysc CDS group to join as a corper. nyscinfo.com/best-nysc-cds-groups-
to-join-as-a-Corps-member/ 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

An Analysis NYSC and Free Medical Care in Nigeria 
199 
 
statutorily meant to complement public authorities in the area of 
humanitarian interventions. The mandate of Red Cross is derived from 
the aforementioned Act of Parliament and the Geneva Conventions of 
which Nigeria is a state party.20  
To effectively carry out their function, the Nigerian Red Cross society, 
in collaboration with the national youth service Corps, formed the Red 
cross CDS group. The Nigerian Red Cross sends highly qualified staff to 
the three weeks mandatory NYSC training. There, its staff teach the 
newly inducted Corps members first aids and tips on emergency 
response. This is because the Nigerians Red Cross believes first aid is a 
humanitarian act that should be accessible to all.21 After the three 
weeks programme in the camp, members of the group in the camp also 
meet once in a week and continue their training, and once qualified, 
they are sent out to give first aids treatment on emergence cases or to 
sensitise people on the need to have first aids boxes nearby. Their 
activities over the years have help curb a lot of health issues. 
 
HIV and AIDs 
The CDS motivate all adults to get tested for HIV and know their status. 
The campaign delivers the message that HIV testing should be a part of 
everyone’s regular health routine and that, resources are available in 
all hospitals. They motivate carriers not to be discourage about life and 
all is not yet lost. The CDS also sensitise carriers and shows how people 
with HIV have been successful getting in care and staying on treatment. 
It focuses on helping people with HIV stay healthy and live longer, 
healthier lives. 
The CDS highlights the role that each person plays in stopping HIV 
stigma and gives voice to people living with HIV, as well as their friends 
                                                           20 The Nigerian red cross society. Who we are. 2020. www.redcrossnigeria.org 21 The Nigerian red cross society. Who we are….. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                            Itodo, Unekwu Friday 
200 
 
and family. Campaign participants share their stories and call on 
everyone to work together to stop HIV. 
They also sensitise people on available resources and partnerships 
aimed at stopping HIV stigma and promoting HIV testing, prevention, 
and treatment. They also visit and seeks to increase HIV testing in in 
the country facilities by encouraging all healthcare providers, 
especially those in primary care, homeless programmes, and 
substance-use treatment clinics, to offer routine HIV testing to all 
patients in order to diagnose HIV infection at the earliest possible 
stage. 
These CDS group members task each other a certain amount of money 
after the end of every month and then set aside dates that the group 
visit hospitals, charity homes, and correctional facilities to present 
items bought by the money donated by the Corps members to alleviate 
their sufferings. Sometimes, their donations are boosted further by 
good Samaritans living in the host community or faith-based 
organisation.22 
Aside the CDS groups, the NYSC also partnered with organisations to 
help resolve health crisis. Example of such partnership is that with The 
National Primary Healthcare Development Agency (NPHDA) whose 
mission is to provide leadership that supports the promotion and 
implementation of high quality and sustainable primary health care for 
all through resource mobilization, partnerships, collaboration, 
development of community based systems and functional 
infrastructure.23 They found a worthy partner in the NYSC and birthed 
NYSC /NPHDA partnership on Combating Ebola Virus Disease (NYSC 
                                                           22Awajis. NYSC Community Development Service. November 18, 2020. 
awajis.com/community-development-service-cds/ 23The National Primary Healthcare Development Agency (NPHDA) NPHDA. 2014. 
www.nphcda.gov.ng 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

An Analysis NYSC and Free Medical Care in Nigeria 
201 
 
COMEVID). This involves sensitisation/campaigns on the Ebola Virus 
Disease (EVD) across the country. 
The NYSC also created Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers (HIRD). A 
programme initiated by the Director-General.  In 2014, the National 
Youth Service Corps (NYSC) established the free healthcare delivery for 
the aged and less-privileged persons in rural communities called the 
Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers (HIRD). The idea of bringing free 
health care to the grassroots was necessitated by the lack of access to 
quality health care in rural communities. The HIRD programme 
mobilizes medical volunteers in providing health care through 
diagnostic, therapeutic, referral, and appropriate preventive measures. 
It was hoped that it would help enhance the general well-being of rural 
communities in Nigeria. In the words of the then Director-General of 
NYSC, Brig.-Gen. Suleiman Kazaure: 
The HIRD is another community-based programme 
designed among other things to support the various 
state governments in the drive toward the provision of 
healthcare for all. As managers of the scheme, we are 
fully prepared to leverage the well-spread abundant 
human resource at our disposal to improve the quality 
of life of our people. Our team of experienced medical 
personnel are sure of giving you standard medical 
services for your general well-being; so feel free to 
engage them. Our confidence in the success of the 
programme lies in our partners and stakeholders who 
are either assisting us with personnel or providing 
support with drugs and medical equipment. I hope that 
our efforts in enhancing the quality of life of our people 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                            Itodo, Unekwu Friday 
202 
 
through this programme will endure and be improved 
upon over the years.”24  
The initiative has maintained its goals and had a profound impact on 
needy communities in Nigeria. 
Aside the CDS and partnership entered by the NYSC, some Corps 
members have taken it upon themselves to provide free medical care to 
their community of primary assignment. In Osogbo for instance, a 
Corps member named, Dr. Dakum Benji, serving in Olorunda Local 
Government Area of Osun, provided free health services to hundreds of 
people, including women and children in the community. Benji said on 
Monday that it was part of his community development services to 
improve the health care delivery in the community. 
According to him as quoted by the vanguard news, the programme 
included the distribution of 20 first aid boxes equipped with drugs to 
selected schools, mosques, churches, motor parks, and markets in the 
area. Benji, supported by a team of medical doctors in the Corps, 
offered free consultation and treatment to more than 1,000 men and 
women in the programme. Vanguard stated that, drugs were 
distributed freely to patients who had one ailment or the other while 
medical advice was given to many who were diagnosed by the doctors. 
Benji charged the government at all levels to ensure that Nigerian 
citizens were given access to affordable health care while advising 
Nigerians not to play with their health. He called on the government 
and well-meaning Nigerians to make funds available to Corps members 
who executed projects beneficial to the masses.25 
                                                           24News Agency of Nigeria. NYSC commences health initiative for rural dwellers in 
Ogun.  2017. www.today.ng/news/nigeria/nysc-commences-health-initiative-
rural-dwellers-ogun-21969 25 Vanguard news. Corps member provides free health care to community. 2011. 
www.vanguardngr.com/2011/05/Corps-member-provides-free-healthcare-to-
community/ 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

An Analysis NYSC and Free Medical Care in Nigeria 
203 
 
Also in Ogun state, a 2009 Batch B Corps member, Miss Ogechukwu 
Mama put smiles in the faces of people of Achievers Community, Idi-
Agbalumo, in Ota Local Govt Area of Ogun State, after embarking on a 
three-day free dental care in the area. The Corps member said her 
action was part of her efforts to impact the lives of her host community 
and as my Community Development Service, CDS. She further stated 
that she was motivated to give dental care to the people because, she 
has been a victim of toothache and tooth decay and therefore, 
understood the pains people in a similar situation were passing 
through. 
According to her as quoted by Nnamdi Ojeigo:  
I chose dental because since my childhood I have been 
having dental problems which were more or less 
caused by poor oral hygiene, ignorance, and negligence. 
I have removed two of my teeth in the past year. I 
decided to focus on rural people because I found out 
that many of them have been suffering from toothache 
for a very long due to negligence or lack of money. 
Many of them don’t have money to go for medical care. 
Some don’t even have access to medical facilities. So, I 
want to assist them, I want to help ameliorate their 
pains.26 
She revealed that she had planned to include free eye treatment but for 
the paucity of funds, which was her major challenge, it was jettisoned. 
Mama went to some nursery and primary schools in the area to educate 
the pupils on the need to maintain oral and physical hygiene such as 
brushing twice a day, bathing regularly, and keeping their environment 
                                                           26NnamdiOjeigo. Corps member offers free health service to community. 2011. 
www.vanguardngr.com/2011/06/Corps-member-offers-free-health-services-to-
community/ 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                            Itodo, Unekwu Friday 
204 
 
neat always, amongst others, and distributed toothbrushes and 
toothpaste to the students.  
 
Conclusion 
The national youth service Corps programme was established to 
obliterate the horrors and memories of the tragic event in the nation’s 
history (the Nigeria–Biafra war). It was established for reconstruction, 
reconciliation, and rebuilding the country after the Nigerian civil war. 
The tragic event in the history of the country gave impetus to the 
establishment of the National Youth Service Corps with the 
proclamation No. 24 of May 22, 1973, stating that the NYSC was 
established "to promote and enhance equitable relations among 
Nigerian youth and promoting national unity". However, many years 
after the establishment of the body, it has achieved more than "to 
promote and enhance equitable relations among Nigerian youth and 
promoting national unity". The above has clearly shown that the 
national youth service Corps has been a major free medical care 
provider in the country. These free health care medical services are 
provided by the NYSC CDS groups, partnership with other government 
organisations and non-governmental organisation, and voluntary 
humanitarian free health care services provided by individual Corps 
members. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

An Analysis NYSC and Free Medical Care in Nigeria 
205 
 
Bibliography  
 
Books 
Akunne, Okonta, Ukwe, M. O, M.J, C.V" Satisfaction of Nigerian patients 
with health services: a protocol for systematic review."2019 
American Heritage. Dictionary of the English Language, Fifth Edition. 
2016. Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Company. 2016.. 
Based on WordNet 3.0, Farlex clipart collection. Princeton University, 
Farlex Inc. 2012. 
Collins English Dictionary – Complete and Unabridged, 12th Edition 
2014. HarperCollins Publishers. 2014 
Definition of medical from the Cambridge Academic Content Dictionary. 
Cambridge University Press. 
Fiering, Norman S. "Irresistible Compassion: An Aspect of Eighteenth-
Century Sympathy and Humanitarianism." Journal of the History 
of Ideas 37 (1976): 195–218. Gppi.net. Principle of 
Humanitarian Donorship. 2019. Https://www.gppi.net/issue-
area/humanitarian-action 
Götz, Norbert; Brewis, Georgina; Werther, Steffen. Humanitarianism in 
the Modern World: The Moral Economy of Famine Relief. 
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. 2020. 
doi:10.1017/9781108655903. External link in |title= (help) p. 3 
Medical Dictionary. Farlex and Partners. 2009 
Random House Kernerman Webster's College Dictionary, K 
Dictionaries Ltd. Random House, Inc. 2010  
Segen's Medical Dictionary. Farlex, Inc. 2012. 
Dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/english/care 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                            Itodo, Unekwu Friday 
206 
 
Online Materials  
Awajis. NYSC Community Development Service. November 18, 2020. 
awajis.com/community-development-service-cds/ 
CDS REVIW: NYSC Community Development Service (CDS). 2019. 
nyscblog.com/all-you-need-to-know-about-nysc-community-
development-service-cds/ 
Definition of medical from the Cambridge Advanced Learner's 
Dictionary & Thesaurus.  Cambridge University 
Press) dictionary. cambridge.org/us/dictionary/ 
english/medical 
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Humanitarianism 
Harvard Human Rights Journal. Volume 33, Spring 2020. harvardhrj.com 
humanitarianism." Word Net Â 3.0. Princeton University. 2 June 2007" 
News Agency of Nigeria. NYSC commences health initiative for rural 
dwellers in Ogun.  2017. www.today.ng/news/nigeria/nysc-
commences-health-initiative-rural-dwellers-ogun-21969 
Nnamdi Ojeigo. Corps member offers free health service to community. 
2011. www.vanguardngr.com/2011/06/Corps-member-offers-
free-health-services-to-community/ 
The Nigerian red cross society. Who we are. 2020. 
www.redcrossnigeria.org 
The National Primary Healthcare Development Agency (NPHDA) 
NPHDA. 2014. www.nphcda.gov.ng 
Vanguard news. Corps member provides free health care to 
community. 2011. www.vanguardngr.com/2011/05/Corps-
member-provides-free-healthcare-to-community/ 
wikipedia.org/wiki/Health_care 
World Health Organisation. Primary health 
care.2019 www.who.int/news-room/fact-
sheets/detail/primary-health-care 
www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/health%20care 
www.dictionary.com/browse/medical 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

An Analysis NYSC and Free Medical Care in Nigeria 
207 
 
www.thefreedictionary.com/Care 
www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/care 
www.encyclopedia.com/history/encyclopedias-almanacs-transcripts-
and-maps/humanitarianism 
www.encyclopedia.com/history/encyclopedias-almanacs-transcripts-
and-maps/humanitarianism 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                                  A. E. Adamgbe 
208 
 
  
11 1122 22    
    NYSC and Free Medical Health Care Delivery in 
Nigeria 
 
                                                                                  
Aondoahemen Edward Adamgbe 
 
 
Introduction 
Health constitutes an important determinant of development and the 
welfare of an individual and entire society. It is against this background 
that, the United Nations (UN) made healthcare provision one of the 
cardinal objectives of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The 
World Health Organization (WHO) considers health as transcending the 
mere absence of sickness or infirmity. The world health body reckons 
good health as a state of complete physical, mental and social wellbeing. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Free Medical Health Care Delivery in Nigeria 
209 
 
This of course explains why the provision of quality healthcare facilities 
and services is entrenched in the constitution of most countries across 
the world. In Nigeria too, health care provision forms one of the 
fundamental objectives of the government hence it can be considered as 
both a basic right and a prerequisite for rapid economic development 
and poverty reduction1 
Although medical healthcare delivery is an important aspect of all 
human societies throughout history, it needs to be pointed out that 
there are variations in the organization, level of advancement and 
efficiency of health care delivery among nations.  In Nigeria, both belief 
– based and traditional medical practice had been in existence before 
the arrival of Christian missionaries with modern medical care. The 
Christian missionaries along side British colonialism significantly tilted 
the health care sector towards modern orthodox sector with increasing 
awareness about the causes of diseases. In this regard, hospitals, 
primary health care delivery centres were established. In the same vein, 
medical practitioners including doctors, nurses, midwives, pharmacists 
and laboratory technicians were trained to take care of the medical 
needs of the people.  
With rapidly expanding populations, acceleration of lifestyle diseases 
and, as more people began to realise that disease conditions were 
neither curses nor afflictions from the gods but situations that could be 
addressed with modern medicine, the Nigerian healthcare sector 
started becoming overwhelmed. Consequently, the sector became be 
deviled by infrastructural deficit and manpower shortage as well as 
other institutional challenges. The World Health Organisation 
                                                           1SakiruOlarotimiRaji, Multiple Sources of Healthcare Delivery System and the 
Formal Recognized State Healthcare: The Bane of Nigeria Healthcare 
Development, Prim Health Care 8: 315. doi: 10.4172/2167-1079.1000315 
Accessed on 20/03/2021 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                                  A. E. Adamgbe 
210 
 
(WHO)also suggests that Nigeria has one of the largest stocks of human 
resources for health (HRH) in Africa but, like the other 57 HRH crisis 
countries, has densities of nurses, midwives and doctors that are still 
too low to effectively deliver essential health services (1.95 per 1,000). 
The patient-to-doctor ratio in Nigeria is 2500:1, more than four times 
higher than the WHO’S recommendation of 600:1. Given this gap and 
current demography, the country needs up to 10 times its current 
number of, according to comments made by the president of the 
Nigerian Medical Association (NMA). In recent years, migration to 
foreign countries has declined, and the primary challenge for Nigeria is 
inadequate production and inequitable distribution of health workers, 
the WHO reports. The health workforce is concentrated in urban 
tertiary health care services delivery in the southern part of the 
country, particularly in Lagos.2 
It merits mentioning also that the World Health Organisation (WHO) 
observed a high reliance on out-of-pocket (OOP) health payments as a 
means of financing health system in Nigeria and that this has continued 
for many years in spite of a consensus to move closer to Universal 
Health Coverage (UHC) and sustain it when achieved. According to a 
report by Fitch Solutions, healthcare expenditure in Nigeria is predicted 
to reach NGN5,762.061 billion by 2021 growing at a CAGR of 8.35% 
Y.O.Y. This is up from an estimated NGN 5,318.061billion in 2020. By 
2021, healthcare spending is estimated to make up 2.94% of the 
country’s GDP. While the government is expected to spend NGN 
1,477.77 billion by 2021, the private sector will spend NGN 
4,284.469billion in the same period. This is up from NGN 1,190.71 
billion and NGN 3,709.120 billion respectively in2019.3 
                                                           2 Informa Market, Healthcare Market Insights: NIGERIA, A Publication of Medic 
West Africa, 2019 3 “A Closer Look at the Health Care Sector in Nigeria”, Available @ 
info@pharmaccess.orgAccessed on 21/03/2021 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Free Medical Health Care Delivery in Nigeria 
211 
 
It is against this backdrop that the provision of free medical health care 
can be appreciated. Thus the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) 
which was established in 1973 with the mandate to raise a class of 
patriotic, morally and physically disciplined Nigerian Youths who 
graduated from Universities and Polytechnics to undertake the national 
service have become more involved in the provision of free medical 
health care. Against this background, this chapter discusses the 
contributions of the NYSC to free medical health care delivery in 
Nigeria. It is understood that during the mandatory one year service, 
corps members live among and within the host communities facilitating 
unity and integration as well as championing community development 
by executing projects jointly with the people of their host communities. 
However, this chapters focuses on free health care delivery by the NYSC 
within the context of how this is undertaken, its impact and the 
challenges involved.  
 
An Overview of Medical Health of Care Delivery in Nigeria 
Although belief – based and traditional medical practice had been 
widely practiced within the space now referred to as Nigeria, medical 
health care service in Nigeria today is to a large extent based on modern 
or orthodox healthcare delivery which may be termed as more coherent 
in terms of organization and procedure. In terms of organization,the 
national healthcare system in Nigeria can be described as being based 
on a three-tier structure. These tiers can be referred to as primary, 
secondary and tertiary tiers of health care. The Local government 
councils are responsible for the Primary healthcare which ought to be 
the management of local dispensaries, environment 
sanitation/protection and routine immunization etc. The State 
Governments are supposed to be responsible for secondary healthcare 
system i.e. the General Hospitals, Health Centres and similar healthcare 
delivery systems while the Federal Government is expected to 
concentrate its efforts on the tertiary and apex referral institutions such 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                                  A. E. Adamgbe 
212 
 
as the National Hospital, the Specialist/Teaching Hospitals and the 
interventionist Federal Medical Centers. 
When Nigeria attained independence in 1960, the missionaries had 
established many hospitals, dispensaries and maternity centers in 
different parts of the country. However, this emerging orthodox or 
modern healthcare system had to contend with the tradition and 
cultural practices of the people. Hence, there was low patronage of 
these western medical services, and as such this led to the gross 
underutilization of the healthcare facilities. In 1962, the First National 
Development Plan was established by the Nigerian government to cover 
a period of six years (1962-1968). Specifically on health, the National 
Plan focused on accessibility of healthcare by providing hospitals in all 
major cities of Nigeria.4  However, the country would soon degenerate 
into crises as the bloody 1966 was soon followed up by the civil war 
which stretched from 1967 - 1970. As a result of these crises the first 
post-independence National Development Plan had to be replaced by 
one which tackled the emerging challenges.  
A second National Development Plan therefore had to be crafted 
between 1970 and 1974 with the cardinal objective of providing quality 
and equal healthcare to all citizens. However, this policy was not 
properly implemented as only 25% of the Nigerian population had 
access to quality health care. In the1970s, after the civil war, Nigeria 
experienced its oil boom which coincided with the rapid expansion of 
healthcare facilities. Nevertheless, this period experienced an increase 
in infant and childhood mortality to underscore the notion that the 
health policy lacked proper implementation. Consequently, the Third 
National Development plan was introduced in 1975. This third plan was 
                                                           4 Iroju Opeyemi Anthony “Understanding the Nigerian Healthcare Delivery System: 
A Paradox of Preventive Medicine Since the Colonial Epoch” International Journal 
of Tropical Disease & Health, 34(3): 1-9, 2018; Article no.IJTDH.46702, ISSN: 2278–
1005, NLM ID: 101632866 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Free Medical Health Care Delivery in Nigeria 
213 
 
based on the Basic Health Services Scheme with the aim of increasing 
the proportion of the population accessing health services from 25% to 
40%; to provide an even distribution of health infrastructure in the 
country especially between the rural and urban areas and between 
preventive and curative care; to provide infrastructure for all 
preventive health services such as the control of communicable 
diseases, family health, environmental health, and nutrition; to 
establish the school of health technology and to introduce a new cadre 
of healthcare workers among others.5 
In spite of the laudable objectives of the Third Development Plan, these 
objectives of this plan were not achieved as less than 30% of the Nigeria 
population had access to modern healthcare in 1985. The Structural 
Adjustment Program (SAP) was introduced in Nigeria in 1986 and 
lasted for four years. This era marked the beginning of the rapid decline 
in the Nigeria healthcare service delivery system. This period was 
characterized by an astronomical rise in the cost of healthcare in 
government hospitals; this indisputably led to an increase in mortality 
rate. Consequently, there was an explosion in the establishment of 
private hospitals and clinics whose healthcare cost was not affordable 
by most Nigeria populace. The primary, secondary and tertiary 
healthcare system was introduced during the post-independence 
period. In 1995, Nigeria was divided into six geo-political zones. The 
Nigeria healthcare delivery system benefited from this process because 
it facilitated the implementation of primary healthcare at the six geo-
political zones. The introduction of Information and Communication 
                                                           5Iroju Opeyemi Anthony “Understanding the Nigerian Healthcare Delivery System: 
A Paradox of Preventive Medicine Since the Colonial Epoch” International Journal 
of Tropical Disease & Health, 34(3): 1-9, 2018; Article no.IJTDH.46702, ISSN: 2278–
1005, NLM ID: 101632866 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                                  A. E. Adamgbe 
214 
 
Technology (ICT) tools in Nigeria healthcare delivery system in the late 
1990s also changed the face of the healthcare delivery6  
The Federal Ministry of Health (FMH) has the responsibility to develop 
policies, strategies, guidelines, plans and programmes that provide the 
overall direction for the National Health Care Delivery System. Local 
Government Councils. Asat 2014, healthcare services were delivered at 
over 34,000 health centres included on the FMH’s master facility list, 
two-thirds of which were publicly administered; private firms ran the 
other third. Of the total, 88% were primary facilities, 11.6% offered 
secondary services and 0.25% engaged in tertiary care. The National 
Health Act (NHA) of 2014 established a legal framework for the 
development, regulation and management of a national health system 
and set standards for service provision. The latest version of the 
National Health Policy (NHP), which was approved in February 2017, 
fuses with the NHA in an effort to fulfil the UN’s SDGs, particularly on 
Universal Healthcare Coverage. In this regard, the contribution of the 
private sector to the Nigerian healthcare industry is increasing. With 
rising levels of disposable income among some segments of society and 
the limited supply of public hospitals that are overstretched and under-
funded, there is greaterdem and for private coverage.7  
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           6IrojuOpeyemi Anthony “Understanding the Nigerian Healthcare Delivery System: 
A Paradox of Preventive Medicine Since the Colonial Epoch” International Journal 
of Tropical Disease & Health, 34(3): 1-9, 2018; Article no.IJTDH.46702, ISSN: 2278–
1005, NLM ID: 101632866 7“A Closer Look at the Health Care Sector in Nigeria”, Available @ 
info@pharmaccess.orgAccessed on 21/03/2021 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Free Medical Health Care Delivery in Nigeria 
215 
 
Levels of Health Care in Nigeria and Responsibilities 
     LEVEL 
 
SECTOR TOTAL 
NO. OF 
UNITS 
TYPE OF HEALTH 
CARE UNIT 
Tertiary Care Public: 85%, 
Private: 9%, 
FB: 4%                                       
47 Teaching Hospitals 
Secondary Care           Public: 32%, 
Private: 28%, 
FB: 4% 
3,768             District Hospital, 
comprehensive 
Health center and 
Specialist and General 
Hospitals 
 
Primary Care Public: 79%, 
Private: 10%, 
FB: 1% 
29,854                Dispensary &Health 
posts (30%), Health 
Centers(44%), Clinics 
(26%) 
 
 
 
 
• FB = Faith - Based 
 
 Source: info@pharmaccess.org Accessed on 21/03/2021 
 
Although there are concessions from this source that some health care 
institutions were not counted in the computation above, the data gives 
insights into the nature and ratio of responsibilities ascribed to the tiers 
of government regarding medical health care provision in Nigeria. From 
the presentations above, it can be discerned that the local government 
councils have the highest number of health care units and these are the 
closest to the people. In spite of this structural organization of the 
medical health care system in Nigeria much of the revenue accruing to 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                                  A. E. Adamgbe 
216 
 
the local government councils from the federation account does not get 
to the councils. This and a combination of other factors have hindered 
the development of the Nigerian healthcare system especially at the 
primary level. Some of the notable challenges in this regard include, a 
high communicable diseases burden, rising incidence of non-
communicable diseases, elevated rates of infant and maternal mortality 
and mass illiteracy. Indeed, the local government tier is the least funded 
and organised level of government and therefore has not been able to 
properly finance and organise primary healthcare, creating a very weak 
base for the healthcare system.8Thus, most of the dispensaries and 
health centers hitherto managed by the Native Authorities in the 1960s 
and local authorities in the 1970s are non-functional. As at 2019, 
reports suggested that less than 10% of the primary health care centres 
were functional. This is to say that the first point of call for medical 
attention and the closest tier of health care delivery for the people has 
collapsed. 
Arising from the collapse of primary health care delivery across the 
country, medical conditions that could have been addressed at the 
primary health care level are passed on to the higher tiers which should 
ideally be handling special and more complicated or referral cases. This 
also places enormous burden on the secondary and tertiary medical 
healthcare service providers. In some cases, the patients who should 
have been attended to at the primary health care level cannot afford the 
services of the secondary and tertiary tiers of medical healthcare 
provision and resort to substandard options more so as the charges 
demanded by private health care service providers are quite exorbitant. 
In its bid to curb this trend, the federal government of Nigeria decided 
to establish the Primary Healthcare Development Agency (NPHCDA) to 
handle immunization and other primary healthcare needs in the 
                                                           8   Pharm Access, Nigerian Health Sector Market Study Report, Embassy of the 
Kingdom of the Netherlands in Nigeria, March 2015 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Free Medical Health Care Delivery in Nigeria 
217 
 
country and take some of the burden off the shoulders of the local 
government councils. 
Even the state governments across the country have not been able to 
manage health care effectively. Many general hospitals under this tier of 
government are without doctors and the required equipment and 
supplies. This means that the responsibility here is also shifted to the 
tertiary healthcare provider. Apart from the migration of medical 
personnel to places outside the country due to better working 
conditions, medical health workers often prefer the urban areas hence, 
most rural areas are left without the needed medical health personnel. 
This essentially due the lack of basic infrastructure in the areas outside 
the state capitals and more, recently the threat posed by armed bandits 
in many rural areas. Even where the doctors are willing the to stay in 
the rural areas, the needed equipment and medical supplies as well as 
electric power supply pose as serious challenges. Whereas the WHO 
recommends one Doctor for every 600 patients, the situation in Nigeria 
trails far behind such that there is just one Doctor for every 3,500 
patients, in a country with terribly low poverty rates and increasingly 
high health concerns. 
This is not to say that migration of medical professionals overseas is not 
a challenge. As of July 2017, the General Medical Council (GMC) in the 
United Kingdom indicated that over 4,765 Nigerian doctors are working 
in the UK which represented 1.7 per cent of the total of the UK’s medical 
workforce. Indeed, about 40,000 out of the 75,000 registered Nigerian 
medical doctors are practicing outside the country. Also, 100 doctors 
resigned from the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan in 2017. In 
2018 and 2019, a total of 800 doctors resigned from hospitals owned by 
the Lagos State Government. This points to the poor condition of the 
working environment. This is further buttressed by the fact that in 
2012, more than 1,000 doctors wrote the West Africa College of 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                                  A. E. Adamgbe 
218 
 
Physicians exams to gain admission into Nigerian teaching hospitals, 
but in 2017 only 236 doctors sat for the same exam.9 
Most of the Nigerian doctors working abroad were trained here in 
Nigeria. In 2014, a total of 3204 provisional medical certificates and 
190 provisional dental certificates were issued by the Medical and 
Dental Council of Nigeria. Of the provisional certificates, 537 (16.8%) 
were granted to foreign medical graduates and 9 (4.7%) to foreign 
dental graduates.10However, migration to foreign countries has 
declined recent years, and the primary challenge for Nigeria is 
inadequate production and inequitable distribution of health workers. 
For instance, WHO reports that the health workforce in Nigeria is 
concentrated in urban tertiary health care services delivery in the 
southern part of the country, particularly in Lagos while other places in 
the north and rural areas are completely empty. 
The foregoing demonstrates that the healthcare system in Nigeria has 
been evolving steadily since the country’s independence in 1960, For 
instance, a number of healthcare reforms have been implemented with 
the aim of tackling the country’s public health challenges. These include 
the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS), the National 
Immunisation Coverage Scheme (NICS), Midwives Service Scheme 
(MSS), Nigerian Pay for Performance Scheme (P4P). The NHIS which 
was launched in 2005, is a combination of both compulsory and 
voluntary contributory health insurance schemes targeted at formal 
sector workers as well as informal sector workers. It aims to ensure 
access to quality health care services, provide financial risk protection, 
reduce the rising cost of healthcare services and ensure efficiency in 
                                                           9      PharmAccess, Nigerian Health SectorMarket Study ReportEmbassy of the 
Kingdom of the Netherlands in Nigeria, March 2015 10  Surgical workforce in Nigeria Stock and flow of medical and dental Practitioners 
in Nigeria, with special Focus on health workforce training in Cross river state 
African Centre For Global Health and Social Transformation, December 2015 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Free Medical Health Care Delivery in Nigeria 
219 
 
healthcare. These efforts notwithstanding, over 90% of the Nigerian 
population is living without health insurance coverage. Moreover, many 
Nigerians are not employed in the formal sector hence they cannot be 
covered by the nature of the health insurance scheme introduced by the 
government.  
According to UNICEF11, Nigeria’s mortality rates for women and 
children are among the world’s highest. The health body notes that the 
ratio of 576 maternal deaths per 100,000 live births has not improved 
over the last decade. Most of these deaths occur in northern Nigeria 
where health indices are poorer. Nigeria also has the world’s second 
highest number of deaths in children under five, losing around 2,700 
every day from a ratio of 120 per 1,000 in 2016, although it has 
declined since 2003 down from more than 200 per 1,000. Only one out 
of three babies is delivered in a health facility. The poorest among 
Nigeria’s population continue to be most in peril, whatever their age. 
While there have been drops of 31 per cent and 26 per cent in under-
five and infant mortality rates, respectively, over the last 15 years, the 
decline in deaths of newborns over the same period is just 20 per cent 
highlighting an urgent need to scale up interventions targeting the 
youngest in the country. 
It has also been observed by UNICEF that the uptake of routine 
immunization in Nigeria remains poor and full immunization coverage 
has failed to gain traction as only one in four children are fully 
vaccinated. The situation for rural children causes greatest concern – 
only 16 per cent are fully immunized, compared to 40 per cent of 
children in urban areas. Measles vaccination coverage has now fallen 
below 50 per cent. Despite making significant progress in the 
eradication of polio, which led to Nigeria being declared polio-free in 
2015, insurgency in the northeast and the resultant insecurity is 
                                                           11 www.unicef.org/Nigeria Accessed on 21/03/2021 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                                  A. E. Adamgbe 
220 
 
beginning to reverse these gains: four new cases of wild poliovirus 
(WPV) re-emerged in Borno State in August 2016. 
Nigeria has 190,950 HIV/AIDS infections per year, the second highest 
rate in the world. The country therefore has the world’s second highest 
burden of HIV/AIDS, with an estimated three million people living with 
HIV (PLHIV) and 190,950 new infections recorded in 2015. Nigeria’s 
HIV epidemic is generalized, with extensive regional variations in 
prevalence. The opportunities for children to access diagnosis and care 
is limited. Approximately 260,000 children aged 0-14 years were living 
with HIV in Nigeria in 2015, with 41,000 new infections occurring 
among children, and only 17 per cent of children living with HIV having 
access to antiretroviral therapy (ART).Three huge gaps can therefore be 
observed in Nigeria’s health care system - shortage of manpower, 
inadequate medical infrastructure/supply and the inability of the 
average Nigerian to afford medical care. Let us therefore discuss the 
establishment of the NYSC and its objectives especially as they fall 
within the framework of free medical health care delivery. 
Three gaps can therefore be observed in the system - shortage of 
manpower, inadequate medical infrastructure/supply and the inability 
of the average Nigerian to afford medical care. This perhaps explains 
why the NYSC had to wield in – delivering free medical health care to 
those that the Nigerian health care system has not been able to cater 
for. Over 90% of the Nigerian population is living without health 
insurance coverage. Moreover, many Nigerians are not employed in the 
formal sector hence they cannot be covered by the nature of the health 
insurance scheme introduced by the government.   
 
Establishment of the NYSC and Its Objectives 
The National Youth Service Corps scheme was established by Decree 
No. 24 on 22ndMay, 1973. As part of General Yakubu Gowon’s (then 
Nigeria’s Head of State) post-Civil War reconstruction, reconciliation 
and rebuilding. The NYSC was intended to strengthen the bonds that 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Free Medical Health Care Delivery in Nigeria 
221 
 
held Nigeria together following the threat of disintegration.  A 
publication of the NYSC points out that the scheme was established 
with a view to the proper encouragement and development of common 
ties among the youths of Nigeria and the promotion of National Unity.12 
The scheme was set up such that university and polytechnic (HND) 
graduates under 30 years of age are posted to states other than their 
states of origin to serve for a mandatory period of one year. Initially 
when the number of degree and HND holders was not much NCE 
graduates were also expected to serve in the NYSC scheme before 
jumping into the job market. During this mandatory one year period of 
national service, the corps member (Those undergoing national service 
under the NYSC scheme) are expected to learn and understand the 
culture of the host community which should help eliminate prejudices 
and create greater tolerance. The host community too is expected to 
learn from the corps members’ uniqueness. At the same time corps 
members are to indulge in community development activities in their 
host community and contribute their quota to national development.  
It can therefore be said that the NYSC came to address a wide range of 
national issues such as, mass literacy, shortage of skilled manpower, 
disunity, intolerance, underdevelopment among others. Of course one 
of the most important as aspect of the NYSC scheme is the Community 
Development Service (CDS). This is apart from the daily and main 
engagement of the corps member in their Place of Primary Assignment 
(PPA) either as school teachers, office assistants or other activities 
which the places they are posted to might be engaged in. The NYSC 
Community Development Service (CDS) is a year round affair. It is one 
of the four (4) cardinal points of NYSC.13It is through the CDS that corps 
                                                           12National Youth Service Corps, “ABCs of Community Development Service”. NYSC 
National Headquarters, Abuja: Press and Publicity Unit, 2015. 13  Abdullahi1, Muhammad and A. I. Chikaji “Issues in Community Development 
Service Scheme of Nigeria’s National Youth Service Corps and its Relevance to 
Community Development in International Journal of Research in Science & 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                                  A. E. Adamgbe 
222 
 
members are able to work with the local communities to promote self-
reliance by identifying and executing development projects and 
programmes that can enhance the socio-economic development of the 
host communities.14  
In more specific terms, the objectives of NYSC as they relate to 
community development service are as follows: 
1.  To Impact positively on the improvement of rural community 
life. 
2.  Develop the spirit of entrepreneurship in the Corps Members. 
3.  To utilize the challenges which rural development poses and 
inculcate in the Nigerian Youth the ideals and capacities for 
leadership, endurance, selflessness, community service, national 
service, patriotism and creativity. 
4.  Expose Corps Members to diverse traditions and customs of the 
host communities. 
5.  Provide the forum for Corps Members to experiment with ideas 
and translate them into concrete achievements thereby relying 
less on foreign technology and encouraging the use oflocal raw 
materials in the execution of projects. 
6.  Harness the enormous talents and skills of Corps Members into 
an effective machinery of change in our rural communities. 
7.  Provide on-the-job training and experience for Corps Members. 
8. Provide complementary service in our National development 
activities, by ensuring that our under-privileged population 
learns basic techniques for self-help through the appropriate 
technology concept being promoted by NYSC. 
 
                                                                                                                                       
Engineering (IJRISE) e-ISSN: 2394-8299 Volume: 2 Issue: 6- December 2016 p-ISSN: 
2394-8280 14 National Youth Service Corps. “Objectives of the Scheme”. Accessed on 26th 
June, 2016 from NYSCOfficial Website: http://www.nysc.gov.ng/objectives.php 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Free Medical Health Care Delivery in Nigeria 
223 
 
9. To instill in Corps Members the tradition of dignity of labour and 
productivity. 
10. To complement the activities of government at all levels in the 
stride towards national development.15 
 
The NYSC and Free Medical Healthcare Delivery in Nigeria 
Consistent with the community development objectives of the NYSC, 
about 16 community development groups have been created by the 
NYSC overtime. Corps members are therefore expected to belong to at 
least one of these CDS groups. Out of these 16 CDS groups, three of the 
groups fall within the framework of medical health care provision. 
These three CDS groups are namely; Reproductive Health & HIV/AIDS 
Group, Medical and Health Services Group and the Drug Free and 
Quality Control Group.  The Reproductive Health & HIV/AIDS Group has 
the objective of training and mentoring students as well as mobilizing 
and strengthening community based responses to HIV/AIDS in terms of 
prevention through sensitization campaigns. The Medical and Health 
Services Group (which includes such groups as Red Cross, Breasts 
Without Spot, Polio Plus) has the objective of promoting and providing 
Medical Services through health outreach, First Aid administration, 
Establishment of Community based clinics and setting up of clinics for 
the NYSC Secretariat. The Drug Free and Quality Control Group (which 
includes, NDLEA,NAFDAC, SON) is aimed at the eradication of fake and 
adulterated foods and drugs and the creation of awareness on the 
dangers of drug abuse. Their activities in this regard include the 
establishment and coordination of Drug Free Clubs in Schools and the 
establishment of linkages with the host communities. 
 
                                                           15National Youth Service Corps, “ABCs of Community Development Service”. NYSC 
National Headquarters, Abuja: Press and Publicity Unit, 2015. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                                  A. E. Adamgbe 
224 
 
The three aforementioned CDS groups therefore serve as platforms for 
NYSC members to provide free medical health care services in their 
host communities. It would be observed that each year, corps doctors, 
nurses, dentists, optometrists, physiotherapists, pharmacists, 
laboratory scientists and graduates from other fields of human health 
are posted for the mandatory national service for one year. These 
doctors, nurses, pharmacists, etc, usually constitute a body of medical 
volunteers who provide technical health services during their service 
year. Quite often, the NYSC Medical and Health Services Group 
particularly mobilizes corps medical volunteers in the provision of 
medical health intervention services such as diagnosis, treatment, 
referrals and proper preventive mechanism thereby enhancing the 
general well – being of the rural dwellers across the nooks and crannies 
of the country. It is important to point out here that, corps members 
have basic intellectual capacity requiring minimum training to pass 
correct information and give minimum skill to rural people. In this 
connection, it not only those that have training in the medical field that 
have had roles to play in the provision of free medical health delivery. 
According to Samuel Akoh, a staff of the NYSC, the knowledge base 
acquired by graduates due to vast exposure they obtained from the 
university makes it quite easy for them to be trained and equipped to 
carry out sensitization and awareness activities on basic health issues 
in the rural areas where the awareness on many health conditions is 
lacking.  This explains why corps members do not necessarily have to 
have university education in a health related field to be part of the 
health related CDS group in the NYSC. Thus, the health related 
disciplines are in the scheme can be easily mobilized as national 
response to the issue of healthy living in the rural areas.  
Since the inception of the NYSC scheme therefore, corps members have 
been seen across the country providing free medical care services 
through clinics that are organised sometimes in open fields or at 
designated health care service centres. A major impact of these 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Free Medical Health Care Delivery in Nigeria 
225 
 
development programmes is the fact that corps members are spread 
throughout the country and are able to identify the areas in dire need 
even in the most remote parts of the country. Members have also been 
known to contribute towards the provision of basic materials such as 
drugs, sanitary pads, mosquito nets, disinfectants, and even the building 
of public toilets as well as the furnishing of hospital wards. During 
internationally recognised days (such as World AIDS Day, Malaria Day) 
meant to create awareness on certain disease conditions, corps 
members embark on sensitization walks, house to house enlightenment 
and awareness creation through electronic media. Sometimes the corps 
members engage in the cleaning of public places in both the urban and 
rural areas. They can also be seen cleaning drainages and gutters while 
others provide refuse bins in public places for free and rendering free 
medical care services to internally displaced people. 
Of course the highlight of the National Youth Service Corps’ 
involvement in free medical health care delivery was the introduction 
of the Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers (HIRD) which is an 
innovation of the Director-General of the NYSC, Brig Gen J. B. Olawumi. 
The main objective of the HIRD programme is to mobilize volunteer 
corps medical personnel to the rural dwellers who are unable to access 
medical attention as a result of neglect and remoteness of their location 
or the high cost of medical services which they cannot afford.  The 
Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers was therefore set up  to reach-out to 
core rural areas in all the 774 Local Government Areas of the country to 
enhance the accessibility of health care services by rural dwellers 
through the provision of the needed information and medical 
palliatives. The programme engages corps medical personnel in the 
sensitization of the core rural dwellers on disease prevention, provision 
of first aid services, monitoring of cases and provision of appropriate 
referral where necessary.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                                  A. E. Adamgbe 
226 
 
 The Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers was officially flagged-off in 
Igbo Owu community in Ifelodun Local Government Area of Kwara state 
on Thursday, 13th November, 2014. The HIRD programme collaborates 
with Ministry for Health, Primary Health Care Board, WHO, NPHDA, 
SFH and FHI was able to later attend to the health needs of 527 persons 
in Kwara State. Out of this number, 520 were treated will up for some, 
while 2 cases were referred. Cases investigated include – malaria, 
hypertension, typhoid, blood sugar level, arthritis, upper respiratory 
infection and peptic ulcer. In Lagos State too, the NYSC partnered with 
the Lagos state Ministry for Health, Primary Health Care Board, Omron 
Healthcare Ltd, Nigeria and Ministry of Rural Development to Flag- off 
the HIRD programme at Ese - Offin community Primary School. 
Residents of the five communities namely Egan-Oromi, Itogbesa, Ojota, 
Ishagira and Ese-Ofin communities under Otto-Awori were given free 
medical attention. 
Through several collaborations, the NYSC has been been using the HIRD 
programme to carry out medical outreaches in different parts of the 
country. For instance, in October, 2015 the formal launching of HIRD 
took place at Ikpayongo, Gwer – East LGA in Benue state during the 
NYSC Health Week. Many residents were attended to and a resident of 
Makurdi, Terseer Apuu16 explained that his aged mother was among 
those treated of malaria. On 29th May, 2018, a medical outreach was 
conducted in Jos as part of activities to commemorate the 45th 
Anniversary of the NYSC. During the exercise, the Low Cost Market in 
Jos was cleaned by the corps members. Between July 9 – 13, 2018 a 
total of 823 patients were treated in Gure, Kwara State an outreach 
programme that has become a regular exercise in the community 
through the NYSC partnership with other bodies. In March, 2020, about 
420 persons were treated under the HIRD programme in Gambu and 7 
                                                           16 Oral Interview: Terseer Apuu, Male, 43 years, Welder Interviewed in Makurdi on 
19 th, March, 2020. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Free Medical Health Care Delivery in Nigeria 
227 
 
other villages of Dogon Daji area in Tambuwal Local Government area 
of Sokoto State. Also, 398 in Umuoba – Anam community in Anambra – 
East LGA of Anambra State were treated under the HIRD scheme in 
February, 2020. Similarly about 1000residents of Maikusidi and its 
environs in Wushisi LGA of Niger State were treated in February, 2020 
while 2,000 Internally Displaced Persons in Borno were granted free 
medical attention in their Maiduguri camp in September, 2020. 
 
Conclusion 
Our efforts here have been directed towards analysing the role played 
by the NYSC in the provision of free medical health care delivery in 
Nigeria. We have shown here that the medical health care delivery 
system in Nigeria is laden with challenges which makes access to health 
care the privilege of a few. This means a large part of the population is 
cut off as a result of lack of awareness pertaining certain health 
conditions, the remoteness of their location or because they cannot 
afford the cost of medical care. There is also the challenge of inadequate 
number of health care workers while other refuse to work in rural areas 
especially were medical supplies and other amenities that make the 
working environment conducive are lacking. Against this backdrop, the 
NYSC continues to fill this void by providing free medical care services 
to even the most remote areas where corps members can be found 
through the use of CDS groups. The highlight of this involvement was 
the creation of the Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers (HIRD); the 
initiative was introduced to mobilize volunteer corps medical personnel 
to the rural dwellers who are unable to access medical attention as a 
result of neglect and remoteness of their location or the high cost of 
medical services, which they cannot afford.  Since its introduction, the 
initiative which is partnered by prominent health care regulatory and 
management agencies such as WHO and state ministries of health has 
been able to organize awareness activities, donate medical supplies and 
conduct free medical clinics which offer treatment, referral and follow 
up services for the needy. Despite this important role being played by 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                                  A. E. Adamgbe 
228 
 
the NYSC in the area of free medical health care delivery in Nigeria, 
factors which include insecurity, infrastructure deficit and prevalent 
illiteracy especially in the rural areas have stood as challenges against 
the role of the NYSC in this noble cause. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Collaboration with National... 
229 
 
    11 1133 33    
    National Youth Service Corps and Collaboration with 
National Environmental Standards and Regulations 
Enforcement Agency 
 
 
Apeku Gabriel Aondofa Melvin 
 
 
Introduction 
Nigeria like many other multi-ethnic and Multi-Cultural Nations have a 
supreme challenge of building a nation out of a plethora of nationalities 
and to foster a sense of common identity and destiny amongst their 
disparate and distinct peoples.1  It is a problem need to be admitted by 
every Nigerian Citizen, Leaders and followers alike if it is ever to be 
                                                           1 G. Enegwea and G. Umoten, NYSC: Twenty Years of National Service (Ibadan: 
John Archers Publishers Limited, 2017):25 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                       A.G. Aondofa Melvin 
230 
 
confronted and successfully combated. It is a problem that has defeated 
great nations like the Soviet Union, Yugoslavia and even broke India 
into many sovereign Nations such as Pakistan, Bangladesh, Nepal, Sri 
Lanka, Bhutan and the Maldives. It is the most important problem yet 
confronting Nigeria and has impeded seriously on National Growth and 
Cohesion.2 
The Sad experience of these countries have shown quite clearly that the 
challenge of building National Unity out of diverse entities and 
Nationalities cannot be solved by the easy resort to force and threats of 
cessions by some groups, as this merely sweeps the irritating and 
underlying causes under the carpet of surface polyphony, until they 
fare up again often with more damaging consequences.3 
Nigeria is a country that is made up of over 250 Ethnic groups, each 
with its own distinctive history, religious, Cultural and political system, 
and many of these nationalities had a well-developed system of 
governance and administration prior to colonization with each reacting 
differently to colonization. Indeed, colonization rather than uniting the 
people by bringing them together under one national cohesion, serve to 
further divide, accentuate and exploits their differences.4 
The policy of divide and rule instituted by the British was deliberately 
adopted and crafted with the sole purpose of polarizing the people and 
breeding mutual suspicions and distrust so as to give the colonial 
masters more controlling powers, thus at independence Nigerians were 
no nearer to true Nationhood than they had been at amalgamation, 
therefore  the complex process of nation building combined with the 
polices of revenue allocation, progressively and steadily pull the 
Nation-state apart. Suffice it to say that the three years’ civil war of 
1967-1970 was the logical and inevitable conclusion to the process set 
                                                           2G. Enegwea and G. Umoten, NYSC 42. 3 Gregory and Gabriel, 57 4 Gregory and Gabriel, 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Collaboration with National... 
231 
 
in motion to benefits the interest of the colonial masters fifty-two 
years5 ago in 1914. 
The end of the Nigerian Civil War of 1967-1970 brought with it serious 
distrust and suspicion among the various Nationalities and also 
highlighted disconcerting albeit unaddressed challenge of turning 
Nigeria’s over 250 ethnic groups and nationalities into one 
consolidated Nation, with new hopes of reconciliations amidst the old 
fears over unity and mutual co-existence. It was in this exhilaration of 
reconciliation that the dream of the National Youth Service Corps was 
born6. 
 
Background to the Environmental Space in Nigeria 
During the colonial era, protection of the environment was not a 
priority in Nigeria and there was accordingly no policy aimed at 
preserving and protecting it. Matters relating to the environment were 
dealt with as a tort of nuisance because disputes in environmental law 
were not viewed as public matters warranting state intervention. The 
few environment related laws criminalized activities that could 
degrade the environment. These laws included the Criminal Code Act of 
1916, which prohibited water pollution and air pollution and created 
the offence of nuisance7. In 1917 the Public Health Act was enacted. 
Although somewhat broad in scope, this Act contained provisions of 
relevance to the regulation of land, air and water pollution. Thus it is 
evident that at this time matters relating to the environment were dealt 
with in a rudimentary manner, from the viewpoint of environmental 
sanitation.  
                                                           5Gregory and Gabriel, 63. 6 Gregory and Gabriel, 7 L. Mohammad, “Review of NESREA Act 2007 and Regulation 2009-2011: A new 
Dawn in Environmental compliance and enforcement in Nigeria,” Law 
Environment and Development Journal 8, No.1, (2018):27-35. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                       A.G. Aondofa Melvin 
232 
 
Following Nigeria’s independence in 1960 and the discovery of oil, it 
became apparent that existing laws dealing with the environment were 
grossly inadequate. This was owing to the fact that most of the 
provisions on environmental protection were scattered throughout 
different laws, resulting in an ad hoc response to different needs in 
different situations.8 During the decade following independence, the 
Government criminalized polluting activities, particularly those 
relating to the discharge of oil in navigable waters and environmental 
degradation as a result of petroleum activities. The 1970s saw the 
further development of Nigeria’s environmental regime in response to 
industrial growth associated with the oil boom. River basin authorities 
were created and environmental units were established in some 
government ministries. The laws were, however, typically ‘knee-jerk’ 
responses to emergency situations.9 
The 1980s and 1990s witnessed the most drastic and systematic 
development of environmental laws in Nigeria, partly owing to 
Nigeria’s ratification of or accession to a number of international 
instruments during this period. The main national Environmental laws 
and decrees developed during this period, and which some still in 
operation today were the creation of the Federal Environmental 
protection agency FEPA.10  
 
Federal Environmental Protection Agency FEPA 
Prior to June 1988, Nigeria responded to most environmental problems 
was on an ad hoc basis. The discovery of toxic waste dumped by an 
Italian ship, The Karin B, in Koko, a remote town of then Bendal State 
and now Delta State, southern Nigeria, in June 1988, and the attendant 
                                                           8Ladan, “Review of NESREA Act 2007 and Regulation 2009-2011,” 42. 9 Ladan, “Review of NESREA Act 2007 and Regulation 2009-2011,”58. 10 Kingsley Ejike, “The Role of NESREA Act 2017 in Ensuring Environmental 
Awareness and Compliance in Nigeria,” Journal of Applied Chemistry 4, No.2, 
(September 2019):48. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Collaboration with National... 
233 
 
media and public outcry prompted the government to react swiftly.11  
Through diplomatic channels, the Nigerian government succeeded in 
getting the Italian government and the Italian Chemical Company that 
was the culprit to lift the toxic waste out of the country.  
The Nigerian government followed this action by organizing an 
international workshop on the environment. The result was the 
formulation of a national policy on the environment. Consequently, the 
Federal Environmental Protection Agency (FEPA) was created in 1988 
and charged with the administration and enforcement of the 
environmental law. In addition, the government enacted the Harmful 
Waste (Special Criminal Provisions) Act, 1988, to deal specifically with 
illegal dumping of harmful waste.12  
Federal Government woke up to confront the problem of 
environmental abuse and degradation when Nigeria Students studying 
in Italy alerted the international media that an Italian Chemical 
company was exporting its toxic waste to his Village in Nigeria , the 
exposure angered international environmentalist all over the globe, 
thus the discovery of that  Italian ship in May 1988 containing  some 
imported toxic chemical wastes, made up principally of 
polychlorobiphenyls (PCBS) and the hostile media reaction that 
accompanied the discovery hastened the creation of the then Federal 
Environment Protection Agency (FEPA),  since Nigeria lacked both the 
institutional and legal framework to tackle the issue. Hence, in 
December 1988, as part of the emerging coordinated approach to 
environmental issues, the agency was established by decree. The 
                                                           11  PB Ajibola, Protection of the Environment through Law: Law and Environment in 
Nigeria (Ibadan: University Press, 1997):84. 12Gozie S. Ogbodo, “Environment Protection In Nigeria: Two Decades after the 
Koko Incident,” Annual Survey of International & Comparative Law15,No.1 
(2009):12.  https://digitalcommons.law.ggu.edu/annlsurvey/vol15/iss1/2 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                       A.G. Aondofa Melvin 
234 
 
coming of FEPA represents a milestone in environmental management 
effort in Nigeria.13  
The Federal Government of Nigeria in 1988 established the Federal 
Environmental Protection Agency (FEPA) to protect, restore and 
preserve the ecosystem of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.  
The decree 58 of 1988 requires FEPA to establish environmental 
guidelines and standards for the abatement and control of all forms of 
pollution. The major function of FEPA is the establishment of national 
environmental guidelines, standards and criteria most especially in the 
area of water quality, effluent discharge, air and atmospheric quality 
and including the protection of the ozone layer which in the past was 
absent.  Others are noise control, hazardous substance discharge 
control and the removal of wastes and ascertaining spillers’ liability. 
The agency also has power to initiate policy in relation to 
environmental research and technology and in formulating and 
implementing policies related to environmental management. In 
addition, FEPA was given some enforcement powers including the right 
to inspect facilities and premises, search locations, seize items and 
arrest people contravening any laws on environmental standards and 
prosecuting them. The agency was also empowered to initiate specific 
programmes of environmental protection and may establish 
monitoring stations or networks to locate sources of and dangers 
associated with pollution. Furthermore, it has powers to conduct public 
investigations or enquiries into aspects of pollution.14  
FEPA was thus the supreme reference authority in environmental 
matters in Nigeria although state and local government authorities and 
institutions including their environmental departments are still 
expected to play their traditional role of monitoring and enforcing 
                                                           13 Gozie S. Ogbodo, “Environment Protection in Nigeria,” 13 14Nwufo Cecilia Chinwe, “Legal Framework for the Regulation of Waste in Nigeria” 
African Research Review 4, no. 2 (April, 2010):491-501. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Collaboration with National... 
235 
 
standards as well as fixing penalties charges, taxes and incentives to 
achieve certain environmental goals. 
Once the decision was taken to confront the problem of environmental 
abuse, Nigeria led the fight against hazardous wastes dumping until the 
signing of the Basal Convention against trans-boundary transportation 
of hazardous, toxic and radioactive wastes in 1989. With the setting up 
of the Federal Environmental Protection Agency, the States 
Environmental Protection Agencies (SEPAS) were set up. These were 
complemented by the Local Governments (LGAs) Environmental 
Protection Agencies. However, industrial pollution was regarded by 
FEPA as a priority environmental problem and hence the first ever and 
only “National Guidelines and Standards for Environmental Pollution 
Control” was more of an industrial pollution control guidelines and 
standards with few notes as guidelines for surface impoundments, land 
treatments, waste piles, landfills, incineration and hazardous/toxic 
wastes. Moreover, even the available industrial pollution control 
guidelines and standards are not sound enough and far from being 
enforced in the country compared to other then developing Nations like 
Malaysia, Brazil, Kenya and South Africa. 
It must be stated that the Federal Environmental Protection Agency 
(FEPA) was handicapped by the limited environmental information, 
such as the formulation of sound and modern environmental legislation 
that will take in account issues such as implementation of 
Environmental Impact Assessment EIA, Environmental Audit EA that 
will take into consideration the impact of any plan of action and its 
effects on the environment. 
 
The Defunct Federal Environmental Protection Agency 
As pointed out earlier the FEPA Acts and regulations was more of an 
industrial pollution control guidelines and standards than an actual 
holistic regulatory and enforcement body that will cater for modern 
and emerging environmental issues so the Federal Environmental 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                       A.G. Aondofa Melvin 
236 
 
Protection Agency (FEPA) Acts and Regulations of 1991-2006 was 
defunct and its Act and Regulations were repealed in 2007 by the 
NESREA 15 Act, because of some major drawbacks of FEPA such as: 
1. Lack of or weak enforcement of existing environmental laws 
and regulations. FEP Agave industries five years’ moratorium in 
1990 for industrial compliance with the installation of pollution 
abatement facilities, which expired in 1994. Nonetheless 
compliance rate by industries was generally low (between 20-
40 per cent). Even then the efficiency of many of the pollution 
abatement facilities was suspect. Many had broken down, or 
were grossly inadequate or were just operationally cosmetic to 
give semblance of compliance 
2. The enforcement mechanism was through visits to facilities for 
compliance monitoring, facilities work through, find out 
challenges for non-compliance, examine monitoring records 
where they exist, undertake in sit environmental monitoring of 
some parameters and discuss findings with the facility 
manager; and proffer appropriate advice that could promote 
compliance or issue warning where non-compliance is 
persistent. 
3. The resultant consequence of the above mentioned poor 
environmental compliance or weak enforcement regime were 
the following industrial pollution problems and their impact on 
the environment and human health in Nigeria: 
• Surface waters (60-70 per cent) in urban areas colored, foul 
smelling, fishless, and were non-potable and non-
swimmable. 
• Shallow groundwater acquifers contaminated by infiltration 
of domestic and industrial wastes; petroleum waste 
products, toxic and non-toxic; 
                                                           15Nwufo Cecilia Chinwe, “Legal Framework”,  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Collaboration with National... 
237 
 
• Visual impairment and reduced fish catch in costal and 
marine waters, 
• Nuisance and health problems from industrial effluents 
disposed on land orwetlands; 
• Worsening public health through exposure to pollutants, 
thereby putting the lives of millions of Nigerians within the 
community at risk from water related health diseases such 
as typhoid fever 
The major lessons learnt from the above include the following 
• It is counter-productive and unsustainable for a lead 
environmental protection agency to pursue a weak or 
outdated compliance monitoring and enforcement strategy 
• It is retrogressive to lack focus on pollution prevention 
strategies, life cycle analysis approach and non-integration 
of environmental treaties obligations into national 
environmental compliance and enforcement framework on 
industrial, wastes and chemicals pollution control for the 
benefit of present and future generations 
• It is inexcusable not to borrow a leaf from best practices by 
exploring the use of economic incentives such as tax 
holidays and tax exemptions as a means to promote high 
compliance by industries. 
• It is ineffective for environmental pollution control and 
prevention not to pursue adequately inter-agency 
cooperation and collaboration including information 
sharing and exchange among government agencies and 
other federating units that have similar mandate or over 
lapping function. 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                       A.G. Aondofa Melvin 
238 
 
NESREA and the Environmental Regulation 
The National Environmental Standards and Regulation Enforcement 
Agency is currently the major federal body charged with the protection 
of Nigeria’s environment. NESREA was created by the NESREA Act.16 
The federal government, in line with section 20 of the 1999 
constitution, established the Agency as an institution under the 
supervision of the Federal Ministry of Environment, Housing and Urban 
Development. NESREA was created to replace the defunct Federal 
Environmental Protection Agency (FEPA). In examining the 
enforcement of the preventive principle in Nigeria, it is necessary to 
take a look at the establishment, mandate and powers of NESREA. 
NESREA was established on 30 July 2007 as a body corporate with 
perpetual succession and a common seal, which may sue and be sued 
in its corporate name. It is responsible for the enforcement of 
environmental standards, regulations, rules, laws, policies and 
guidelines. Its authority extends to the enforcement of environmental 
guidelines and policies, such as the National Policy on the 
Environment, 1999. This is indicative of the importance and relevance 
of standards, rules, policies and guidelines on the environment. 
Although they may not have the force of law, they are a vital and 
necessary element in the protection and preservation of the 
environment. 
The Agency is charged with responsibility for the protection and 
development of the environment, biodiversity conservation and 
sustainable development of Nigeria’s natural resources as well as 
environmental technology.  
                                                           16 Agbazue V.E,  Anih, E.K. and Ngang, B.U.,  “The Role of Nesrea Act 2007 in 
Ensuring Environmental Awareness and Compliance in Nigeria” IOSR Journal of 
Applied Chemistry (IOSR-JAC)  10, no. 9 (September. 2017):32-37. 
www.iosrjournals.org, DOI: 10.9790/5736-1009033237. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Collaboration with National... 
239 
 
The NESREA Act and Regulations constitute a new dawn because in 
both purpose and contents, they aim at addressing the preponderance 
of obsolete environmental regulations, standards and enforcement 
mechanisms, which resulted, over the years, in the high rates of non-
compliance with environmental laws, regulations and standards.17 
In order to deliver on her mandate, the immediate implementation 
strategies of NESREA are: i) collaboration and partnership; ii) 
conducting public education and awareness on topical environmental 
issues; and iii) strengthening institutions and building capacity to 
monitor compliance and enforce existing environmental regulations, 
including guidelines for best practices. 
In terms of collaboration and partnership, NESREA’s enabling law and 
regulations provided a platform for: creating for a for dialogue, 
exchange of information and best practices as well as build consensus 
and partnerships among all stakeholders. This informed NESREA’s 
decision to organize the 1st National Stakeholders’ Forum on “The new 
Mechanism for Environmental Protection and Sustainable 
Development in Nigeria” with the theme “ensuring a safer and cleaner 
environment in Nigeria through partnerships”. 
As part of the partnership strategy, NESREA proposes to have Zonal 
Headquarters in the six geo-political Zones and Offices in all States of 
the Federation. To date NESREA has established five (5) functional 
Zonal Offices in Port Harcourt, Rivers State; Owerri-Imo State; Jos – 
Plateau State; Gombe – Gombe State; and Kano – Kano State. NESREA 
also has thirteen (13) State Offices across the federation. NESREA goes 
beyond local partnership to collaborate with international bodies, 
agencies and Non-governmental organizations including international 
regulatory bodies such as UN Agencies; World Bank; Partners for Water 
and Sanitation (PAWS-UK); United Kingdom Environment Agency and 
                                                           17Agbazue V.E,  Anih, E.K. and Ngang, B.U.,  “The Role of NESREA Act 2007”,33. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                       A.G. Aondofa Melvin 
240 
 
have organized Sector-specific consultative meetings for sharing of 
ideas and experience, and better dissemination of information, with 
other agencies such as the Nigerian Tanners Council, Association of 
Food Beverages and Tobacco employers. 
Between 2007-2011, there has been continuous advocacy at all levels 
in the print and electronic media to properly communicate the concept 
of voluntary compliance and enlist the support and participation of all 
key stakeholder including trade unions, professional and business 
associations, civil society organizations, traditional, natural and faith 
based organizations. 
In other to ensure effective compliance, monitoring and enforcement, 
NESREA has adopted environmental permitting and licensing system; 
promoting the development of local technologies to aid compliance 
monitoring and enforcement; pursuing technical assistance to 
strengthen capacity through exchange of knowledge and experience, 
and learning of best practices in environmental management from 
other countries whose policy system have some similarities with 
Nigeria. Partnership and network have been established with 
institutions and organizations in Japan and Singapore with a view of 
establishing modern reference laboratories for prompt and reliable 
analysis of environmental samples for effective compliance monitoring 
and enforcement.18 
NESREA likewise possesses oversight functions over hazardous 
chemicals and waste other than in the oil and gas sector. It is required 
to enforce compliance with regulations on the importation, exportation, 
production, distribution, storage, sale, use handling and disposal of 
hazardous chemicals and waste. It is also to enforce compliance with 
legislation on sound chemical management, safer use of pesticide and 
disposal of spent packages. This provision establishes beyond any 
                                                           18Agbazue V.E,  Anih, E.K. and Ngang, B.U.,  “The Role of NESREA Act 2007,”37. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Collaboration with National... 
241 
 
doubt the authority of NESREA in relation to this important issue. It 
also has the effect of putting to rest the dispute in the 1990s between 
the defunct FEPA and the National Agency for Foods and Drugs 
Administration and Control (NAFDAC) about which agency had 
oversight/ responsibility for the control of hazardous chemicals and 
wastes. This provision is also commendable as it takes cognizance of 
the fact that hazardous chemicals and wastes need to be strictly 
monitored at every stage so as not to repeat the Koko Incident of 1988. 
 
Enforcement Power of NESREA 
NESREA possesses broad enforcement powers for the purpose of 
enforcing the Act. Thus an officer of the Agency may at all times enter 
and search with a warrant issued by a court any premises including 
land, vehicle, tent, vessel and floating craft, inland water and other 
structure which he reasonably believes carries out activities or stores 
goods which contravene environmental standards or legislation for the 
purpose of conducting inspection, searching and taking samples for 
analysis. To constitute a lawful search, the search has to be carried out 
with a search warrant issued by the federal or state high court. This is 
in contrast to section 26 of the repealed FEPA Act and section 10 of the 
Harmful Wastes (special criminal provisions) Act where environmental 
protection agencies were empowered to search without warrant. The 
new requirement of a search warrant by the court is in recognition of 
the right to privacy guaranteed under the Nigerian constitution. 
Having examined the justification for the establishment, mandate and 
powers of NESREA, it can be concluded that the new initiatives brought 
about by the NESREA Act are substantive, particularly with regard to its 
enforcement roles and provision of more realistic monetary sanctions 
that can help prevent destructive environmental practices in Nigeria.19  
                                                           19  M.T. Ladan, Environment Law in Nigeria, (ABU Law Press, 2015):11-13 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                       A.G. Aondofa Melvin 
242 
 
Having learnt lessons from the major drawbacks of the defunct agency 
(FEPA), we can all agree that there is an identified major shift towards 
the enforcement of environmental standards and regulations as 
opposed to just creation of standards and regulations. 
 
NYSC and NESREA Collaboration 
The National Youth Service Corps has a great working relationship and 
partnership with NESREA in areas of compliance monitoring, 
Environmental enforcement and sensitization of the public on waste 
management, notably among these collaborations are;   
ECOVANGUARD: The main purpose of the NYSC/NESREA 
Environmental Protection and Sanitation Group (EPSG) also know an 
ECOVANGUARD is 
• To Promote and Sustain Healthy Environment 
• To promote Sanitation and Hygiene among Market Women and 
Traders 
• To Promote Safe Personal Hygiene Practices among girls in 
Public Secondary schools and low Income Communities 
• To Sensitize the Community on modern waste management 
practices  
• To create awareness on sustainable environment, waste 
management and regeneration  
Some of the functions of the ECOVANGUIARD are: 
• Waste to wealth Training 
• Trees Planting 
• Drainage Control and clean ups 
• Erosion control and prevention 
• Sanitation and Hygiene  
• Afforestation 
• Land Remediation and Reclamation 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Collaboration with National... 
243 
 
NESREA as an environmental Agency had been working closely with 
NYSC since 2009 through the ECO Vanguard, a Community 
Development Service group through which the two agencies 
collaborate to sensitize the public on environmental issues such as 
carrying out sensitization on the need for a clean environment and the 
waste to wealth creation within their host communities to empower 
youths within these communities to be gainfully empowered and 
employed through the waste to wealth scheme.20 This process advocate 
for recycling and packaging of certain materials such as polyethylene 
bags, bottles, easily crush metallic objects such as tin cans, plastics, and 
paper bags that can be segregated, separated, package and resold to the 
manufacturing industries, a process that has lifted many in the south 
east and north east parts of the country out of the poverty line. 
The ECO Vanguard CDS Group has engaged actively with environmental 
and sanitation advocacy groups to carry out sensitization among 
market women, traders , slaughter house and low income communities 
across the country to emphasize that Sanitation is the hygienic means 
of promoting health through prevention of human contacts with the 
hazards of waste  as well as proper sanitation practices and waste 
management in the markets,  through proper disposal of all perishable 
goods and the right environmental management practices. 
The ECO Vanguard has recorded tremendous success through the 
creation of Environmental health clubs and societies in secondary 
schools especially in the northern parts of the country to educates 
students on the need to have a healthy environment.  
As part of its Corporate Social responsibility the ECO Vanguard group 
in conjunction with Airtel, MTN,  Flourmills of Nigeria and Leadway 
Assurance Company in a Programme titled “Walk Against 
Environmental Pollution “ mobilize across the six geopolitical zones in 
                                                           20NASREA Official (Name Omitted), “NYSC and NASREA Collaboration”, interview 
by the author on  February 28, 2021.    
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                       A.G. Aondofa Melvin 
244 
 
the countries to carry out an environmental sanitation exercise and to 
sensitize traders on the need to keep a clean environment by desisting 
from indiscriminate refuse dumping, burning of refuses such as plastics 
as well as dumping of refuses into drains and canals all of which are 
hazardous to the human health.   
The group use the opportunity to speak to traders in Idiaraba/Obele 
market in Mushin area of Lagos state to desist from dumping refuse in 
gutters as this causes clogging in the gutters that lead in flooding 
during the rainy season. The Group accompanied by NESREA officials in 
the respective zones mobilizes youths to help clean up the gutters to 
the admiration of many present.  
 
NYSC/NESREA Green Corps Groups 
The main reason for the creation of the NESREA Green Corps is for 
Youth corps members to serve as Environmental green volunteers 
amongst other things and to  
• To create environmental awareness, 
• To combat the spate of incessant environmental pollution and 
indiscriminate depletion of natural resources 
• To assist in promptly and judiciously dispensing with 
environmental disputes at community levels in Nigeria 
• To Train and Groom Young Volunteers on Safeguarding the 
Environment in their place of Primary Assignment  
• To identify environmental hotspots 
• To promote and sustain a healthy environment. 
The Idea of the NESREA Green Corps marshal was first proposed by the 
then Minister of Environment Dr John Odey in 2010 with focuses on 
individual responsibility to achieving a cleaner and healthier 
environment.  The Green Corps Initiative affords the individual the 
opportunity to render selfless service to humanity, particularly to his 
community in the protection of the environment.  It also empowers the 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Collaboration with National... 
245 
 
individual to be a true Vanguard and Watchdog of his/her 
environment.   
The overall goal of the NESREA Green Corps Initiative is to actively 
involve the citizenry in environmental governance through volunteers 
under the guidance of NESREA. The initiative is to encourage citizens to 
act as environmental volunteers and as watchdogs and whistle blowers 
to promote environmental governance in their communities. A member 
of the NESREA Green Corps is not an enforcement officer but can report 
environmental violation to the appropriate authority. It is the 
application of all available tools to achieve compliance, including 
compliance promotion, compliance monitoring and non- compliance 
response.21 
The NYSC /NESREA NGC is targeted at the community level where 
NYSC Corps servicing in the communities and schools have embarked 
on effective and informative Environmental Education to create 
Environmental awareness and compliance to the provisions of the 
NESREA Act as a means to achieving environmental sustainability in 
Nigeria and the application of the public trust doctrine to natural 
resources and environment would justify the need to have a corps 
volunteers to promote and police  compliance and environmental 
enforcement at the community level. 
This Collaboration has recorded tremendous successes especially in the 
southern parts of the of the countries especially in the rain forest states 
where, Forest Guards from NESREA have worked with NYSC Corps 
members to regulate the cutting downs of tress and have educated 
people on the adverse effects of deforestation, desertification, climate 
change and the need to sustain a healthy environment.  
                                                           21IdowuKunlere, “Environmental Protection: Does Nigeria Really need 
Environmental Corps Marshals?,” Journal of Environmental Management 2, no.6 
(2016):65-67. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                       A.G. Aondofa Melvin 
246 
 
The group have carried out trees planting advocacy in most states of 
the federation with a view of discouraging desertification especially in 
the Northern parts of the country by 
• Sensitizing the public on the causes and dangers associated 
with desertification and the attendant land degradation 
• Encouraging sustainable use of fuel wood through the use of 
more efficient and energy saving devices like the coal stove 
with a view of encouraging their wider use and adoption at all 
levels starting with the rural communities 
• Encouraging reforestation, reseeding and afforestation by 
planting of tress and replacement of destroyed vegetation. 
• Creation of environmental awareness among various 
stakeholders. 
It is important to note that most environmental degradation is as result 
of ignorance of the public to the harmful nature of the activities to the 
environment. Just as ignorance of the use of a product leads to misuse, 
disuse and abuse, so also ignorance of the environment and all its 
elements leads to misuse of the delicate elements, disuse of the very 
beneficial ones and abuse of their intended purpose. 
 
NYSC/NESREA Extended Producer Responsibility EPR 
Extended producer responsibility (EPR) also known as the Buy Back 
Scheme is an environmental protection strategy aimed at decreasing 
total environmental impact from a product and its packaging, by 
ensuring that the producers of the product take responsibility for the 
entire lifecycle of their products especially in the take-back, recycling, 
and final disposal of their products, including its packaging. The 
primary responsibility of EPR lies with the producer, who makes 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Collaboration with National... 
247 
 
designs and marketing decisions and should be responsible for how it’s 
products affects the environment.22 
The EPR Collaboration between NYSC and NESREA can be described as 
an integrated public waste management policy that extends (rather 
than merely assigns) financial and physical responsibility for the 
management of post-consumption (end-of-life) products to the 
producers (or importers and distributors) of such products, with the 
aim of reducing waste disposal, promoting resource conservation, 
increasing recycling, and encouraging more environmentally-friendly 
product design, it also exposes the corps members to the rigorous 
process of compliance, monitoring and enforcement policy of 
government through the prism of NESREA as an agency of the 
government. The point must be made however, that the NYSC/NESREA 
EPR Collaboration is not only about the management of post-
consumption products. Rather, it is also aimed at grooming corps 
members as responsible public environmental change agents that will 
educate local producers on how to bear responsibility for the entire 
lifecycle of their products, from the ideation, design, choice of 
production material/technology, production, shipment to the final 
consumers and then, management of post-consumption products. 
The NYSC/NESREA EPR group have collaborated with Producer 
Responsibility Organizations (PRO’s) established by major companies 
and manufacturers, in the country to comply with the Extended 
Producer Responsibility EPR Policy of the Government to sensitize the 
public on how the effective enforcement of this policy will curb 
environmental pollution to a large extent, particularly by removing 
non-biodegradable containers, packages and consumables made of 
plastics, unserviceable computers and their accessories, E-Waste and 
                                                           22 Muhammad Abdullahi, “Issues in CDS Scheme of Nigeria’s National Youth 
Service Corps and it Relevance to community Development,” International Journal 
of Research in Science & Engineering, 
http://researchgate.net/publication/332864813. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                       A.G. Aondofa Melvin 
248 
 
many other forms of electronic waste, from the nation’s streets and 
waterways by embarking regularly for cleanup exercise in major cities 
across the country. Among these PROs are the Food and Beverage 
Recycling Alliance (FBRA) for food and beverage companies; the 
Recycling and Economic Development Initiative of Nigeria (REDIN), 
which is focused on clean energy; and the Alliance for Responsible 
Battery Recyclers (ARBR) for renewable energy companies. 
In 2013, an EPR system was initiated by NESREA with the introduction 
and adoption of a draft Guidelines for Implementation of EPR for the 
Electrical and Electronic Sector (EES). The guidelines create an avenue 
to achieve a sustainable E-waste management status in Nigeria by 
implementing and enforcing the electrical and electronic equipment 
EES regulation of 2011.  
The core stakeholders targeted in the EPR guidelines includes 
producers/importers, manufacturers, and assemblers of Electrical and 
Electronic Equipment EEE.  
The guideline incorporates the establishment of collection centers in 
collaboration with the original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). It 
further makes provision for the establishment of an EEE Registry, that 
is, an organization that maintains an inventory of recyclers/E-waste 
related companies and E-waste Stocks piles nationwide, and this will be 
operated by third-parties such as the NYSC EPR CDS Group and public–
private partnerships, to achieve an effective EPR system in Nigeria. 
 
Impacts of NYSC and NESREA Collaboration 
The NYSC/NESREA Collaboration is a Community Development Service 
component of NYSC through which the Service Corps Members work 
with the local communities under the guidance of NESREA field agents 
to create awareness and sensitize the community on environmental 
issues, waste management practices, and promote self-reliance by 
systematically prospecting and executing development projects and 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Collaboration with National... 
249 
 
programmes which impact positively on the socio-economic 
development of the host communities by 
• Promoting public awareness on the impact of environmental 
degradation  
• Educating members of the communities on the benefits of living 
in a healthy environment devoid of pollution  
• Providing the forum for Corps Members to experiment with 
Environmental ideas and translate them into concrete 
achievements thereby relying less on white collar jobs and 
encouraging the spirit of entrepreneurship. 
• Harnessing the enormous talents and skills of Corps Members 
into an effective machinery of environmental change in the 
society. 
• Providing on-the-job training and experience for Corps 
Members in terms of compliance monitoring  
• Providing opportunities to youths within the community to 
become self-reliance through the waste to wealth scheme.  
• To instill in Corps Members, the tradition of dignity of labor and 
productivity.   
• To complement the activities of government at all levels in the 
stride towards national development.   
These collaborations have help many small industries to come up with 
comprehensive Environmental management plans which have been 
hitherto nonexistence. 
The partnership with NESREA has seen corps member’s participation 
in state-organized monthly environmental sanitation exercise across 
the country with NYSC corps members mobilizing youths in the various 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                       A.G. Aondofa Melvin 
250 
 
communities to clean up gutters, drainages and markets places 
especially in Flooding prone states like Lagos.23 
The NESREA/ECO VANGUARD Collaboration carried sensitization and 
training on environmental compliance monitoring in Combating 
deforestation and environmental degradation during the 2015 Batches 
‘A’ and ‘B’ Orientation Course across the country where over 6,332 
corps members were trained to carry out further sensitization on 
effects of deforestation in their various host communities. 
The impact of the advocacy and sensitization carryout out by NYSC and 
NESREA on the Extender producer responsibility with various 
Producers Responsibility organizations such as Food and Beverage 
Recycling Alliance (FBRA) for food and beverage companies; the 
Recycling and Economic Development Initiative of Nigeria (REDIN), 
which is focused on clean energy; and the Alliance for Responsible 
Battery Recyclers (ARBR) for renewable energy companies and the 
various Electrical and Electronics Equipment importers and 
manufactures in the countries, have seen a tremendous reduction of E-
waste in the country through compliance monitoring for these 
companies to focus on minimizing unnecessary purchase, repairing 
electronics, donating items that are no longer trending  and partnering 
up with NESREA approved recycling partners in the country.  
It is important that a synergy of both voluntary and mandatory 
approaches to E-waste should be encouraged and the EPR concept 
should be reviewed to include other stakeholders, such as the 
consumers, Non-governmental groups and government. 
 
 
 
 
                                                           23National Youth Service Corps (April, 2016). “Rivers Kopa  Magazine”. A Bi-annual 
Publication of Press and Public Relations Unit, NYSC Rivers State. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Collaboration with National... 
251 
 
Conclusion 
As mentioned earlier in the introductory segment of the work, the 
National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) was primarily established in a bid 
to reconstruct, reconcile and rebuild the country after the Nigerian Civil 
War. This unfortunate antecedent in our national history threw up the 
crucial need to encourage and develop common ties. With only six 
universities at the inception of the NYSC, the number of the partici-
pating graduates was about 2,364; and it was a thing of honor for the 
government and these national volunteer participants to freely give in 
to their father land. 
Today, with over 200 corps-producing institutions, the youth corps 
population have continued to increase without corresponding 
infrastructural growth nor concomitant increased funding to cope with 
the corps explosion and inevitable challenges. However, the scheme has 
continued to act as a major catalyst in national development and inte-
gration.  
The scheme succeeded in infusing virtues of growing up as detribalized 
Nigerians and equally imbued the knack to live and inter-mingle freely 
with people from different parts of the country irrespective of tribe, 
religion, cultural orientation, and political proclivities.  
The collaboration of NYSC with the National Environmental Standards 
and Regulations Enforcement Agency of Nigeria has led to tremendous 
achievement in the areas of compliance monitoring, Waste 
Management, pollution control, and environmental sensitization on the 
adverse effects of E-Waste. 
Laudable as the result may be NESREA like many public agencies in 
Nigeria is seriously underfunded and ill equipped to carter for training 
of corps members to better prepare them as environmental change 
agents. Equally challenging is the concomitant population explosion of 
corps members as a result of the increasing number of graduates from 
the over 200 corps-producing institutions in the country. This has 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                       A.G. Aondofa Melvin 
252 
 
brought about what some critics erroneously refer to as “over 
population of corps members”. 
Also is the problematic issue of challenges faced by Corps members at 
various places of primary assignment (PPA) which, unfortunates are 
worsening by the day and has suddenly become perennial and because 
of this, agencies like NESREA with little funding are having a hard 
challenge in accepting more corps members. In several NESREA 
establishments where NYSC members are posted for primary 
assignment, they are reduced to mere glorified clerks and office 
assistants, thus depriving them of the opportunity of having on the field 
training experience that will better position them as environmental 
activist that will drive both social and attitudinal environmental 
changes. It also denies them the opportunity and privilege of 
performing duties for which they were posted to such places in the first 
instance. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Collaboration with National... 
253 
 
Bibliography 
 
Abdullahi, M. “Issues in CDS Scheme of Nigeria’s National Youth Service 
Corps and it Relevance to community Development,” 
International Journal of Research in Science & Engineering, 
http://researchgate.net/publication/332864813. 
Adeyinka, M. “General Gowon Launches Nigeria's National Youth 
Service Scheme June 4th 1973.” YouTube (April 16,2019). Video: 
01:30 
Agbazue, V.E.“The Role of Nesrea Act 2007 in Ensuring Environmental 
Awareness and Compliance in Nigeria” IOSR Journal of Applied 
Chemistry (IOSR-JAC)  10, no. 9 (September. 2017):32-37. 
www.iosrjournals.org, DOI: 10.9790/5736-1009033237. 
Chimoa, Onwere. “National Youth Service Corps Programme and 
National Integration in Nigeria.”Ph.D Dissertation (Department 
of international and Comparative Education, Institution of 
Education, University of London,1992):17-19. 
Chinwe, Nwufo Cecilia. “Legal Framework for the Regulation of Waste 
in Nigeria.”African Research Review 4, no. 2 (April, 2010):491-
501. 
Dowex (September 2nd2015). “Youth Corper Distributes 5,000 Books 
to Students in IkereEkiti”. Accessed from 
http://www.eliasdurosimi.com/nyscjobs/2015/09/youth-
corper-distributes-5000-books-to-students-in-ikere-ekiti 
Ejike, Kingsley. “The Role of NESREA Act 2017 in Ensuring 
Environmental Awareness and Compliance in Nigeria.”Journal of 
Applied Chemistry 4, No.2, (September 2019):48. 
Gregory, Enegwea and Gabriel Umoten, NYSC: Twenty Years of National 
Service (Ibadan: John Archers Publishers Limited, 2017):25 
Kunlere, Idowu. “Environmental Protection: Does Nigeria Really need 
Environmental Corps Marshals?,” Journal of Environmental 
Management 2, no.6 (2016):65-67. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                       A.G. Aondofa Melvin 
254 
 
Kunlere, Idowu. “NYSC and National Development. “The Punch 
(Thursday July 20,2012):38-41. 
Ladan, M.T. Environment Law in Nigeria. (ABU Law Press, 2015):11-13    
Mohammad, Ladan. “Review of NESREA Act 2007 and Regulation 2009-
2011: A new Dawn in Environmental compliance and 
enforcement in Nigeria.” Law Environment and Development 
Journal 8, No.1, (2018):27-35. 
National Youth Service Corps (April, 2016). “Rivers Kopa Magazine”.A 
Bi-annual Publication of Press and Public Relations Unit, NYSC 
Rivers State. 
National Youth Service Corps.“Objectives of the Scheme”. Accessed on 
26thJune, 2016 from NYSC Official Website: 
http://www.nysc.gov.ng/objectives.php 
Ogbodo, Gozie S. “Environment Protection In Nigeria: Two Decades 
after the Koko Incident,” Annual Survey of International & 
Comparative Law 15,No.1 (2009):12. 
 https://digitalcommons.law.ggu.edu/annlsurvey/vol15/iss1/2 
PB Ajibola. Protection of the Environment through Law: Law and 
Environment in Nigeria (Ibadan: University Press, 1997):84. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and Environmental Sanitation Advocacy in Nigeria 
255 
 
 11 1144 44    
    The NYSC and Environmental Sanitation Advocacy in 
Nigeria 
 
 
Ayodele Christian 
 
 
Introduction 
Poor environmental quality has been recognized as a bane to socio-
economic development and human existence. The impacts of 
environmental corrosion are severe on most third world countries 
thereby hindering developments. The living environment is well 
polluted owing to uncontrolled littering, improper domestic discharge 
of waste water, and poor sewage disposal. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                             Ayodele Christian 
256 
 
These behaviours promote unsanitary living conditions which result in 
the breeding of communicable diseases. Poor environmental sanitation 
practices exhibited in the disposal of solid waste, waste water and 
excreta, cleaning of drainage including personal, household and 
community hygiene significantly contribute to infant and child 
mortality. This is contrary to the notion of environmental sanitation 
which aims at developing and maintaining a clean, safe and pleasant 
physical environment in all human settlements.1  
These behaviours promote unsanitary living conditions which result in 
the breeding of communicable diseases in the society.2 Environmental 
sanitation comprises the disposal and treatment of human excreta, 
solid waste and waste water, control of disease vectors, and provision 
of washing facilities for personal and domestic hygiene which work 
together to form hygienic environment. Improved environmental 
condition affects positively a wide range of development indicators. 
Thus, environmental sanitation is a channel to improved quality of life 
of the individuals and a contributor to their social, economic and 
physical development. Several studies have shown that the incidence of 
many diseases is reduced when people have access to, and make 
regular use of adequate sanitary installations.3 
Environmental sanitation is crucial to living a healthy and peaceful life. 
A dirty environment can provide breeding ground for mosquitoes, 
germs, and other organisms that endangers societal health. It is the role 
and responsibility of every household to keep the environment clean. 
In Nigeria, while some organizations are tasked with the sole aim of 
                                                           1 S.A. Adimekwe, “The Impact of Environmental Pollution in Imo State: A Case 
Study of Okigwe Local Government Area”. Journal of Educational and Social 
Research 3(5): 2013. 79-85. 2 S.A. Adimekwe, “The Impact of Environmental Pollution in Imo State: A Case 
Study of Okigwe Local Government Area”. Journal of Educational and Social 
Research 3(5): 2013. 79-85. 3 S.A. Adimekwe, “The Impact of Environmental… 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and Environmental Sanitation Advocacy in Nigeria 
257 
 
ensuring the environment is in a clean state, there are also various 
agencies and organizations that advocate for environmental sanitation. 
Through the CDS (Community Development Service) programme, the 
NYSC is popular for its role as an advocate of environmental sanitation.  
The NYSC through its community development service has been a 
major advocate of community hygiene and the essence of having a safe 
and clean environment. Also NYSC through an arm of it community 
service known as Environmental Protection and Sanitation Group (Eco-
vanguard, NESREA National Environmental Standard Enforcement 
Regulation Agency) aims at reaching communities and sensitizing the 
people on the essence of keeping clean, their environment. This study 
therefore focuses on exploring the activities of the NYSC in 
environmental sanitation advocacy in Nigeria. This work is structured 
into four sections, apart from the introduction, the first section focuses 
on conceptual clarification of terms, the second section traces the 
background to the establishment of the NYSC, the third section focuses 
on the role of NYSC in environmental sanitation advocacy in Nigeria, 
section four discusses the impact of NYSC in promoting and sustaining 
health environment in Nigeria and conclusion. 
 
Conceptual Clarification 
Sanitation: There are different types of sanitation relating to particular 
situations, such as basic sanitation which refers to the management of 
human feaces at the household level. It means access to a toilet or 
latrine, Onsite sanitation: the collection and treatment of waste at the 
place where it is deposited. Also, there is food sanitation which refers 
to the hygienic measures for ensuring food safety. Food hygiene is 
similar to food sanitation, Housing sanitation: refers to safeguarding 
the home environment. Environmental sanitation is another form of 
sanitation that is concerned with the control of environmental factors 
that form links in disease transmission. This category includes solid 
waste management, water and wastewater treatment, industrial waste 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                             Ayodele Christian 
258 
 
treatment and noise and pollution control. Ecological sanitation: the 
concept of recycling the nutrients from human and animal wastes to 
the environment.4 
Sensitization Campaign 
Sensitization according to is an attempt to make one or others aware of 
and responsive to certain ideas, events, situation or phenomenon.5 
Sensitization campaign therefore means a group of persons trying to 
make other people aware about an issue or event. 
Community Development Services: Community Development Service 
(CDS) is one of the four (4) Cardinal Programmes of NYSC in which 
Corps members contribute positively to the development of their host 
communities throughout the period of national service. Since its 
creation in 1973, the National Youth Service Corps has been making 
great contributions in the social, political and economic transformation 
of the nation. In recent times, the scheme has been in the vanguard of 
the nation's drive to correct the imbalance in our rural-urban 
development through the various community development 
programmes executed by Corps members. These programmes have 
revolutionized our communities in the areas of education, health care 
delivery, agriculture, communication, infrastructure, technology, 
economic empowerment, poverty eradication, social services and 
above all national consciousness and socio-cultural regeneration.6 
Advocacy: Advocacy is an activity by an individual or group that aims 
influencing decisions within political, economic, and social institutions. 
Advocacy includes activities and publications to influence public policy, 
                                                           4 L.Hakkim, "Environmental Health and Sanitation" International Journal of Trend 
in Scientific Research and Development Vol.3 No.3, 2019, pp.912-915, URL: 
https://www.ijtsrd.c om/papers/ijtsrd23 107.pdf  5UNICEF, “Community Approaches to Total Sanitation. Field Notes: Case studies 
from India, Nepal, SierraLeone, Zambia.” Policy and Programming in Practice. 
Division of Policy and Practice Programme Division, 2007. 6 “ABC” of Community Development Service” NYSC, NDHQ Abuja, October 2014. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and Environmental Sanitation Advocacy in Nigeria 
259 
 
laws and budget by using facts, their relationships, the media and 
messaging to educate government officials and the public. Advocacy 
can include many activities that a person or organization undertakes 
which including media campaigns, public speaking, commissioning and 
publishing research.7 
Health: The current WHO definition of health, formulated in 1948, 
describes health as “a state of complete physical, mental and social 
well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity.” This 
formulation was ground breaking because of its wide connotation and 
all implying. It overcame the negative definition of health as absence of 
disease and included the physical, mental, and social domains.8  
 
The Role of NYSC in Environmental Sanitation Advocacy in Nigeria 
In its National Environmental Sanitation Policy, the Federal Republic of 
Nigeria defines Environmental Sanitation as the principles and practice 
of effecting healthful and hygienic conditions in the environment to 
promote public health and welfare, improve quality of life and ensure a 
sustainable environment.9 It outlined the essential components of 
Environmental Sanitation to include: (i) Solid waste management; (ii) 
Medical waste management; (iii) Excreta and sewage management; (iv) 
Food sanitation; (v) Sanitary inspection of premises; (vi) Market and 
abattoir sanitation; (vii) Adequate potable water supply; (viii) School 
sanitation; (ix) Pest and vector control; (x) Management of urban 
                                                           7 J.A. Obar, “An Analysis of How Advocacy Groups in the United States Perceive 
and Use Social Media as Tools for Facilitating civic engagement and collective 
action”,  Journal of Information Policy, Vol. 2. 1-25. 8M. Huber, H. Hurst and L. Green, “How Should we Define Health” BMJ Online 
Journal, 343 (2011): 1 accessed December 15, 2019. 9Federal Republic of Nigeria, National environmental sanitation policy (2005). 
Retrieved on 12 September 2012, 
http://tsaftarmuhalli.bIogspot.com/2O1 1/07/national- environmental-
sanitation.html 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                             Ayodele Christian 
260 
 
drainage (xi) Control of reared and stray animals; (xii) Disposal of the 
dead (man and animals); (xiii) Weed and Vegetation Control; (xiv) 
Hygiene education and promotion. This comprehensive definition of 
environmental sanitation encompasses all that is involved in keeping 
every environment clean and in good condition for the flourishing of 
life and the planet. 
Environmental sanitation practices refer to residents’ involvement in 
provision, utilization, and maintenance of environmental sanitation 
facilities and services and adherence to environmental legislation.10 
Nigeria like most developing countries has not strictly adhered to 
adequate environmental sanitation. The principal legislative body 
charged with the responsibility of ensuring environmental protection 
in Nigeria is National Environmental Standards Regulatory and 
Enforcement Agency (NESREA). The NESREA Act of 2007 replaced the 
Federal Environmental Protection Agency (FEPA). Today NESREA is 
the main agency which is mandated to enforce compliance with 
environmental laws, both local and international, on environmental 
sanitation and pollution prevention as well as control through 
monitoring and regulatory measures and to make regulations on air 
and water quality, effluent limitations, control of harmful substances 
and other forms of environmental pollution and sanitation.11  
The environmental situation in many Nigerian cities is in a terrible 
state of affairs. Living with waste as part of the natural environment 
has become a way of life.12  While there are clean cities and villages in 
                                                           10O. P. Daramola, Environmental Sanitation Practices in Residential Areas of 
Ibadan Metropolis. PhD Thesis 
Department of Urban and Regional Planning, ObafemiAwolowo University, Ile-Ife, 
2015). 11 The National Environmental Standards and Regulatory and Enforcement 
Agency(Establishment) Act of 2007 Ss. 7-8 12I. E. Ekong, “An assessment of environmental sanitation in an urban community 
in Southern Nigeria”, African Journal of Environmental Science and Technology, 
Vol. 9, No. 7 (2015); 592-599. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and Environmental Sanitation Advocacy in Nigeria 
261 
 
Nigeria, the number of cities and villages and that are in an untidy state 
would triple those that are clean. Walking through cities like Umuahia, 
Onitsha, Owerri, Warri and perhaps other major cities like Kaduna and 
Lokoja, one will find unkempt gutters, streets filled with dirt, market 
places covered with waste and discarded items, etc. Despite the 
environmental sanitation day observed in some states in Nigeria, many 
places are still polluted and dirty. On environmental sanitation days, 
people pack up dirt from the gutters by the roadsides and heap them by 
the side of the gutters only for a heavy downpour to wash most of the 
dirt and garbage back into the gutters. It is reported that on 
environmental sanitation days, in some major towns, people do not 
really engage in the sanitation activities. Rather, they lock up their 
businesses and open up when the sanitation exercise is over. 
The situation of the environment therefore calls for a joint action 
towards bringing about a clean and green environment. Established in 
1973, the NYSC (National Youth Services Corps) Scheme was 
introduced as an avenue for the reconciliation, reconstruction, and 
rebuilding of the nation after the civil war. It was established based on 
decree No. 24 of 22nd May, 1973 that stated that the scheme was 
created "with a view to the proper encouragement and development of 
common ties among the youths of Nigeria and the promotion of 
national unity".13The scheme operates by posting Corps members to 
states other than their state of origin where it is expected of them to 
mix with people of different ethnic groups, socio-religious and socio-
economic background and learn the culture of the indigenes in the 
location they are posted to.14  This action is aimed at bringing about 
unity in the country and helps the youths appreciate other ethnic 
groups. There is an "orientation" period of three weeks spent in a 
                                                           13 Wikipedia, “National Youth Service Corps”, Retrieved from 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Youth_Service_Corps 14 Wikipedia, “National Youth Service Corps”, Retrieved from... 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                             Ayodele Christian 
262 
 
military controlled "camp" away from family and friends after which 
they are posted to their Place of Primary Assignment (PPA) where they 
work as full-time staff with exception of one working day devoted for 
the execution of community development service.15  
The Community Development Service (CDS) which is a year round 
affair is one of the four (4) cardinal points of NYSC. Through the CDS, 
Corp members work with the local communities to promote self-
reliance by systematically prospecting and executing development 
projects and programme which impact positively on the socio-
economic development of the host communities.16  The CDS component 
of NYSC is classified into various categories. The CDS Group whereby 
Corps Members are formed into various clusters for various purposes 
and aims; there is the Personal CDS where individual Corps Members 
can execute project/programme in their host communities based on 
community’s felt needs and there is the Collaborative CDS whereby the 
scheme partners with National and Non-Governmental organizations 
and other establishments to implement development programmes. 
Under the Collaborative CDS there is the Environmental Protection and 
Sanitation Group (Eco vanguard, NESREA). The aim of this CDS group is 
to promote and sustain healthy environment and to create awareness 
on sustainable environment management and regeneration.17  It does 
this by carrying out activities such as tree planting, sanitation, drainage 
control, erosion control, reforestation, and landscaping. 
 
                                                           15Wikipedia, “National Youth Service Corps”, Retrieved from… 16National Youth Service Corps, “ABCs of Community Development Service”. NYSC 
National Headquarters, Abuja: Press and Publicity Unit, 2015. 17 M. Abdullahi, and A. I. Chikaji, “Issues In Community Development Service 
Scheme Of Nigeria’s National Youth Service Corps And Its Relevance To 
Community Development”, International Journal of Research In Science & 
Engineering, Vol. 2, No. 6 (2016):  218-224. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and Environmental Sanitation Advocacy in Nigeria 
263 
 
NYSC as an Advocate of Environmental Sanitation  
As an advocate of Environmental Sanitation, NYSC begins its 
sensitization from the orientation camp  which  is usually held  in all  36 
states and the Federal Capital Territory. During the camping, Corp 
members are strongly advised on the need to keep good hygiene in 
their Camp environment. For this reason there are those in the Camp 
whose duty is to ensure that the Camp is well kept during their period 
of their orientation. This group of Corps members working with the 
sanitation department ensures that the camp is kept clean and tidy 
during the period of their orientation.  
The military who introduced the NYSC Scheme usually stresses the 
need for Corps members to maintain good hygiene while in the camp 
and during service year. When Brigadier General Ibrahim Kazaure, the 
then DG visited some states in 2018, he commended the camp officials 
for keeping the camp clean and ensuring that facilities including the 
clinic met required standards. 
After being posted to their various Places of Primary Assignment (PPA), 
NYSC ensures that Corp members adhere to the principle of keeping 
the environment clean and green. This is done through the 
Environmental Protection and Sanitation CDS group who carry out 
various tasks to keep their host community clean. During their outdoor 
activities they carry out activities such as sweeping of roads, clearing of 
dirty surroundings in the community, filling of pot holes, planting of 
trees, and any activity that can improve the cleanliness and esthetic 
beauty of the host community.18  
They also hold seminars in various secondary schools where they 
discuss topics relating to environmental sanitization. In large 
Environmental Protection and Sanitization CDS, Corps members are 
distributed in batches to different schools for these seminars. The 
                                                           18Awajis, “A Day in an NYSC CDS Group Meeting: Environmental CDS Group”, 
Retrieved from https://awajis.com/nysc-environmental-cds-group/ 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                             Ayodele Christian 
264 
 
seminar topics vary ranging from sensitizing the host community on 
essential parts of cleanliness, career talks to young ones, health talks 
and other similar subject.19  The target is to ensure that the young ones, 
the adults and the community are clean in their minds, body and 
environment which constitute healthy living.  
In addition, Corps member carry out sensitization in market places. For 
instance during the heat of Covid-19 in 2020, a NYSC team during a 
visit led by the State Coordinator, Mrs. Olutayo Samuel urged market 
women to maintain personal hygiene and also adhere to all COVID-19 
protocols to stay alive. She refuted the general deception and rumors 
that the disease doesn't exist or it is only for the rich.20 She emphasized 
on the fact that Corona virus does not respect the rich nor the poor and 
the need for everyone to adhere to the rules and regulations of NCDC 
(National Center for Disease Control) and stay safe. There was a 
demonstration of hand washing, the use of hand sanitizers, a drama 
play was displayed to inform the marketers of the need to take 
precautionary measures and that the COVID-19 pandemic is not a death 
sentence, if reported earlier.21  Mrs. Samuel also charged the market 
women to report any suspected case of COVID-19 to the NCDC centres 
in the State or any of the general hospitals. 
In a similar event, a donation of hand sanitizers and facemasks were 
made to the Chairman of Warri South Local Government Area in the 
State.22 The Chairman Warri South, Hon. Michael E Tidi while receiving 
the donated items from the NYSC management in the State, 
                                                           19Awajis, “A Day in an NYSC CDS Group Meeting: Environmental CDS Group… 20 “Corpers Diary”, Facebook, Retrieved from 
https://web.facebook.com/724624711032596/posts/nysc-takes-covid-19-
sensitization-to-markets-donate-items-to-lgasthe-management-
/1554737914687934/?_rdc=1&_rdr 
21“Corpers Diary”, Facebook, Retrieved from https://web.facebook.com... 22“Corpers Diary”, Facebook, Retrieved from https://web.facebook.com... 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and Environmental Sanitation Advocacy in Nigeria 
265 
 
commended the Scheme for joining hands with the State Government 
in the fight against COVID-19 pandemic and their efforts towards 
environmental sanitization. He pledged to continue to support the 
Scheme and Corps Members in his Local Government Area as they 
carry out Community Development Services aimed at keeping the 
community in good hygienic condition. The Corps members on their 
own part advised the people on the need to always wash their hands, 
make use of their nose mask and ensure social distancing. They 
implores the people to debunk the claims that Covid-19 pandemic have 
come for the rich alone. 
The Impact of NYSC in Promoting and Sustaining Health 
Environment in Nigeria 
Community impact 
The involvement of Corps members in sanitation exercises has made 
their host communities to embrace them and applaud the Scheme. 
Seeing the manner at which the streets are cleaned up during the 
sanitation, members of the host communities commented that the Corp 
members are doing a great job in line with their Community 
Development Service. A respondent from the host community in 
Plateau state explains that: 
To be honest, the Youth Corps members are one factor 
that reminds Nigerians on the need to engage in 
environmental sanitation. Since the 80s when the 
Muhammadu Buhari military government had included 
enforcement of sanitation exercises in its War Against 
Indiscipline, various Nigerian regimes have not been 
serious with keeping our communities clean. Every 
first Saturday of the month, we see them carrying out 
serious sanitation exercises at the city square. They not 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                             Ayodele Christian 
266 
 
only engage in the cleaning activities, they also charge 
the communities to do the same.23 
By way of promoting environmental sanitation, Mr. Ojo testified that 
the Health Safety and Environmental CDS Group of NYSC Kogi State in 
2019 executed a cultural programme titled “Clean the Polluted Land” 
which has in attendance various community leaders, Corps Members 
and NYSC officials. During the programme, the Corp members were 
reported to have taken on a number of public lectures and drama 
aimed at sensitizing the people on the importance of a clean and green 
environment. 
Moreover, communities have reportedly benefited from the NYSC 
scheme through sanitation services which may not have been provided 
by government or private intervention. The same is the case in urban 
centres where financial institutions, industries and the fueling stations 
also tap from their expertise. In this way, Corps members do not only 
make significant impact on their community, their impact is also felt in 
their respective Place of Primary Assignment (PPA). Speaking on the 
performance of Corps members regarding their efforts towards 
promoting and sustaining a healthy environment, one Mr. Ejimofor who 
is in charge of Corps members at a PPA explains that; 
The Corps members are doing well when it comes to 
keeping this environment clean and tidy. When they 
first arrived here, I thought they were big boys and big 
girls who would never think of doing clean ups, but 
within the first three months of their arrival they had 
kept a large part of the school environment clean. With 
discipline, they charged the students to always ensure 
that the place is well kept. If all the Corps members are 
being posted to schools exhibit such exemplary 
                                                           23 Interview with Austin Maikori, age 40+ Lokoja, 11th March, 2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and Environmental Sanitation Advocacy in Nigeria 
267 
 
character, we are already on the path to social 
development.24 
 
Impact on Children, School Students  
Through their hard work and dedication, Corp members are being held 
in high esteem by students who also wish to be like them. Many young 
people (at the age of leaving secondary school) express their wishes to 
serve Nigeria as a Corp member. Students have also commended their 
teachers who are Corps members on their outward appearance, they 
emphasized on the cleanliness of their iron starched Khaki and bright 
white which almost always without stains. Their health education 
teacher who happens to fall under the Health and Sanitation CDS is 
highly commended for the Health education he inculcated in the 
children on the need to adopt the habit of regular hand washing after 
using toilets and before embarking on food preparation or taking 
meals. 
 
Impact on Corp Members 
The activities of Corps members in community development services 
such as environmental sanitation has led to their being rewarded even 
after service year. In February 2021, at the Presidential Villa, His 
Excellency President Muhammadu Buhari with the Honourable 
Minister Youth and Sports, conferred President’s NYSC Honours Award 
on 110 Ex-Corps Members of the 2018/2019 Service Years. The award 
offers automatic employment to 110 former Corps members in the 
federal civil service and scholarship for the pursuit of post-graduate 
studies up to the doctoral level in any university in Nigeria. In addition 
to this, the president also announced cash rewards for the former 
Corps members. He directed the relevant government agencies to 
ensure timely implementation of all the incentives for the award 
recipients, urging the honourees to sustain the patriotic zeal that 
                                                           24 Interview with Mr. EjimoforOkoro, age 47 +GCU Umuahia, 12th March, 2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                             Ayodele Christian 
268 
 
earned them the award.25 The young men and women being honoured 
to have excelled in the four cardinal programmes of the scheme, 
namely: orientation course, primary assignment, community 
development service and winding-up/passing-out, which formed the 
basis of assessment for the honours award.26 
During an interview with a Corp Member serving in Kaduna state, he 
expresses his joy with regards to his service at his PPA saying; 
In this PPA there are four of us who are members of the 
Health and Sanitation CDS. During sanitation exercises 
we call on other Corps members (including those who 
are not in the same CDS groups with us), and 
encourage ourselves to do the needful that will ensure 
the cleanliness and safety of our environment. This 
place has a lot of bushes around. Sometimes the school 
authority provided us with food stuffs such as maize, 
rice, beans palm oil among others, when they see us 
taking care of the environment. We do not carry out 
this because we want something from them; it is 
primarily because if we leave the grasses here 
unkempt, reptiles such as snake and other wild animals 
take cover there. Also we, have to keep the place clean 
otherwise we will be the ones to suffer malaria from 
mosquitoes. If we the Corps members don’t do it, 
nobody will.27 
 
                                                           25 T. Daka and M. Ogune, “BuhariOffers employment, scholarship to 110 ex-Corps 
members”. The Guardian. Retrieved from  https://guardian.ng/news/buhari-
offers-employment-scholarship-to-110-ex-Corps-members/ 26 T. Daka and M. Ogune, “BuhariOffers employment, scholarship to 110 ex-Corps 
members”. The Guardian. Retrieved from  https://guardian.ng/news/buhari-
offers-employment-scholarship-to-110-ex-Corps-members/ 27Interview with Haruna Ibrahim, age 26+ 12th March, 2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and Environmental Sanitation Advocacy in Nigeria 
269 
 
Challenges Facing NYSC in its Advocacy of Environmental 
Sanitation. 
Ignorance on the parts of the host communities 
Ignorance on the parts of the host communities is usually caused by 
personal factors such as education, poverty, orientation and 
socialization. Research has shown that educational level plays a 
significant role in environmental awareness. According to Theodori 
and Luloff, educated people are more concerned about the 
environment and place more emphasis on preserving the 
environment.28  Many reports have showed that an average citizen in 
especially the less urban areas have still not cultivated the habit of 
ensuring proper disposal of refuse. Many of them dump refuse 
indiscriminately and believing that it is the sole responsibility of the 
government. During an interview with some Corp Members, they 
explained that; 
The communities contribute to polluting the 
environment in several ways. For example during 
raining periods, people pour their refuse into water 
passageway not caring if it goes to stay in another 
person’s house. This is very bad. Others at night dump 
their refuse bin by the road side and it usually takes a 
very long time before the agency for waste 
management shows up to do the clearing. By the time 
they even show up in some cases, the refuse may have 
already heaped up that it becomes difficult for the 
waste trucks to pack them at once.29 
 
 
                                                           28Theodori, G. L.; Luloff, A. E. (2002).Position on Environmental Issues and 
Engagement in Pro-Environmental 
Behaviors. Society And Natural Resources 15: 471-482. 29Interview with Corp Member Femi Johnson, age 24 12th March, 2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                             Ayodele Christian 
270 
 
Lack of waste management facilities  
One of the challenges facing NYSC in its role as an advocate of 
environmental sanitation is the lack of waste management facilities. 
There are no waste vehicles that will effectively evacuate the packed up 
dirt from the road. Often when NESREA officials are called in, they give 
out flimsy excuses. In addition to the lack of waste management 
facilities is the lack of water. It is impossible for one to carry out 
sanitation exercise without water. Some Corps members complain that 
during sanitation exercises they (the Corps members) fund the 
provision of water in some cases. In addition to this, there is a low level 
of cooperation with and patronization of private contractors who will 
collect the wastes and thus stop the dumping of wastes in the roadside 
bins, on the road media, in gutters and rivers.30 
 
Lack of a Sanitation Enforcement Corps 
There is lack of an enforcement agency to punish offenders and reward 
good deeds. In 1983, during the military regime of Buhari/Idiagbon, the 
government through the military enforced cleanliness on streets and 
towns. Offenders were punished; a million naira prize was even placed 
for the best in sanitation activities. The introduction of the monthly 
sanitation exercise and street sweeping programme made a huge 
difference and refuse trucks were brought in to evacuate tons of 
garbage on daily basis while hand cart refuse collectors were gradually 
being phased out.31 However since the democratic dispensation, many 
Nigerian cities and towns have returned to their ‘filth’ way of life.  
 
 
 
                                                           30 M. O. Ikeke, ‘Environmental Sanitation and Human Security in Nigeria: An 
Environmental Ethical Perspective”,  
Journal of Sustainable Development in Africa Vol. 16, No.6, (2014); 45 – 59. 31Guardian, “On the Environmental Sanitation day”, Retrieved from 
https://m.guardian.ng/opinion/on-the-environmental-sanitation-day/ 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and Environmental Sanitation Advocacy in Nigeria 
271 
 
Conclusion 
In the light of the above, this study has been able to examine the role 
and impact of NYSC as an advocate of environmental sanitation 
exercises. The foregoing goes to show that while some people are 
clamouring for an end to the NYSC scheme, many more have also 
embraced the scheme and supported Corp members in different host 
communities. The roles of the Health and Environmental CDS in 
particular have shaped the views of many regarding the question 
whether NYSC should be scrapped or not. 
Seeing the role played by NYSC in bringing about a clean and healthy 
environment, it now beckons on the government to be actively 
supportive in the process. For the government to bring about a clean 
Nigeria, This study recommends that firstly, enlightening communities 
on the importance of Environmental Sanitation creates understanding 
that it is the issue of legality;  right or wrong; that is, right to preserve 
and keep a clean environment that will foster human health and 
security and very wrong not to preserve and keep a clean environment. 
Secondly, there is a necessity for provision of adequate waste 
management facilities to carry out environmental sanitation activities 
effectively. The local authorities should endeavour to provide more 
refuse containers and place them at strategic positions and also 
purchase the waste trucks for evacuating refuse regularly. The various 
communities could as well be empowered with sanitation tools like 
spades, cutlasses, wheelbarrow etc. for effective participation. Thirdly, 
the government needs to introduce an environmental Law 
Enforcement Corps. Legislations should be enforced concerning 
indiscriminate dumping of refuse at road-sides and non participation in 
the regular community sanitation exercise and defaulters should be 
made to face the full wrath of the law.32 
                                                           32Ekong, “An assessment of environmental sanitation… 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                             Ayodele Christian 
272 
 
Bibliography 
 
“ABC” of Community Development Service” NYSC, NDHQ Abuja, 
October 2014. 
“Corpers Diary”, Facebook, Retrieved from 
https://web.facebook.com/724624711032596/posts/nysc-
takes-covid-19-sensitization-to-markets-donate-items-to-
lgasthe-management-/1554737914687934/?_rdc=1&_rdr 
Abdullahi, M. and Chikaji, A. I. “Issues In Community Development 
Service Scheme Of Nigeria’s National Youth Service Corps And 
Its Relevance To Community Development”, International 
Journal of Research In Science & Engineering, Vol. 2, No. 6 
(2016):  218-224. 
Adimekwe, S.A. “The Impact of Environmental Pollution in Imo State: A 
Case Study of Okigwe Local Government Area”. Journal of 
Educational and Social Research 3(5): 2013. 79-85. 
Adimekwe, S.A. “The Impact of Environmental Pollution in Imo State: A 
Case Study of Okigwe Local Government Area”. Journal of 
Educational and Social Research 3(5): 2013. 79-85. 
Adimekwe, S.A., “The Impact of Environmental… 
Awajis, “A Day in an NYSC CDS Group Meeting: Environmental CDS 
Group”, Retrieved from https://awajis.com/nysc-
environmental-cds-group/ 
Behaviors. Society And Natural Resources 15: 471-482. 
Daramola, O. P. Environmental Sanitation Practices in Residential Areas 
of Ibadan Metropolis. PhD Thesis 
Department of Urban and Regional Planning, Obafemi Awolowo 
University, Ile-Ife, 2015). 
Egunyomi, A. The National Youth Service Corps: A Bridge to 
Nationalism in Nigeria. Retrieved from 
https://www.cfr.org/blog/national-youth-service-Corps-
bridge-nationalism-nigeria.Accssed 23/02.2021. 
Ekong, “An assessment of environmental sanitation… 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and Environmental Sanitation Advocacy in Nigeria 
273 
 
Ekong, I. E. “An assessment of environmental sanitation in an urban 
community in Southern Nigeria”, African Journal of 
Environmental Science and Technology, Vol. 9, No. 7 (2015); 
592-599. 
Enegwea, G. and Umoden, G.  NYSC: Twenty years of National Service … 
11-12. 
Federal Republic of Nigeria, National environmental sanitation policy 
(2005). Retrieved on 12 September 2012, 
Guardian, “On the Environmental Sanitation day”, Retrieved from 
https://m.guardian.ng/opinion/on-the-environmental-
sanitation-day/ 
Hakkim, L. "Environmental Health and Sanitation" International Journal 
of Trend in Scientific Research and Development Vol.3 No.3, 
2019, pp.912-915, URL: https://www.ijtsrd.com/papers/ 
ijtsrd23 107.pdf  
http://tsaftarmuhalli.bIogspot.com/2O11/07/national-environmental- 
sanitation.html 
http://tsaftarmuhalli.bIogspot.com/2O11/07/national-environmental- 
sanitation... 
http://tsaftarmuhalli.bIogspot.com/2O11/07/national-environmental- 
sanitation...  
http://tsaftarmuhalli.bIogspot.com/2O11/07/national-environmental- 
sanitation... 
http://tsaftarmuhalli.bIogspot.com/2O11/07/national-environmental- 
sanitation... 
Ikeke, M. O. ‘Environmental Sanitation and Human Security in Nigeria: 
An Environmental Ethical Perspective”,  
Interview with Austin Maikori, Lokoja, 11th March, 2021. 
Interview with Corp Member Femi Johnson, 12th March, 2021.  
Interview with Haruna Ibrahim,  
Interview with Mr. Ejimofor Okoro, GCU Umuahia, 12th March, 2021. 
Journal of Sustainable Development in Africa Vol. 16, No. 6, (2014); 45 
– 59. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                             Ayodele Christian 
274 
 
M. Huber, H. Hurst and L. Green, “How Should we Define Health” BMJ 
Online Journal, 343 (2011): 1 accessed December 15, 2019. 
National Headquarters, Abuja: Press and Publicity Unit, 2015. 
National Youth Service Corps, “ABCs of Community Development 
Service”. NYSC 
Obar, J.A. “An Analysis of How Advocacy Groups in the United States 
Perceive and Use Social Media as Tools for Facilitating civic 
engagement and collective action”,  Journal of Information 
Policy, Vol. 2. 1-25. 
Ripples Nigeria, “Investigation… 21 days in NYSC Camps: 59 Meals, 7 
pieces of Beef; where did all the money go?” Retrieved from 
https://www.ripplesnigeria.com/investigation-21-days-nysc-
camps-59-meals-7-pieces-of-beef-where-did-all-the-money-go/ 
T. Daka and M. Ogune, “Buhari Offers employment, scholarship to 110 
ex-Corps members”. The Guardian. Retrieved from  
https://guardian.ng/news/buhari-offers-employment-
scholarship-to-110-ex-Corps-members/ 
The National Environmental Standards and Regulatory and 
Enforcement Agency(Establishment) Act of 2007 Ss. 7-8 
Theodori, G. L.; Luloff, A. E. (2002). Position on Environmental Issues 
and Engagement in Pro-Environmental 
UNICEF, “Community Approaches to Total Sanitation. Field Notes: Case 
studies from India, Nepal, Sierra Leone, Zambia.” Policy and 
Programming in Practice. Division of Policy and Practice 
Programme Division, 2007. 
Wikipedia,“NationalYouthServiceCorps”,Retrievedfromhttps://en.wiki
pedia.org/wiki/National_Youth_Service_Corps 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Environmental Sanitation Advocacy in Nigeria 
275 
 
 11 1155 55    
    NYSC and Environmental Sanitation Advocacy in 
Nigeria (A Review of NYSC Environmental Protection 
and Sanitation CDS Group activities in Anambra State) 
 
 
Ntagu, Miracle Promise 
and 
Promise, Chinecherem Victory 
 
 
Introduction 
All over the world, poor environmental quality is increasingly 
recognized as a major threat to social and economic development and 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR            N. M. Promise and P. C. Victory 
276 
 
even to human survival1. The impacts of environmental deterioration 
are severe on developing countries thus hindering and undermining 
their development2. The living environment is well polluted owing to 
social misdemeanor of indiscriminate littering, improper domestic 
waste water discharge, and poor sewage disposal. These behaviours 
promote unsanitary living conditions which result in the breeding of 
communicable disease. Poor environmental sanitation practices 
exhibited in the disposal of solid waste, waste water and excreta, 
cleaning of drainage including personal, household and community 
hygiene significantly contribute to infant and child mortality. This is 
contrary to the notion of environmental sanitation which aims at 
developing and maintaining a clean, safe and pleasant physical 
environment in all human settlements. Environmental sanitation 
comprises the disposal and treatment of human excreta, solid waste 
and waste water, control of disease vectors, and provision of washing 
facilities for personal and domestic hygiene which work together to 
form a hygienic environment3.   
Improved environmental condition affects positively a wide range of 
development indicators. Thus, environmental sanitation is a channel to 
improved quality of life of the individuals and a contributor to their 
social, economic and physical development. Numerous studies have 
shown that the incidence of many diseases is reduced when people 
have access to, and make regular use of adequate sanitary 
                                                           1 Acheampong, P. T. (2010). Environmental Sanitation in the Kumasi Metropolitan 
Area. A Master of Science Thesis Submitted to the Department of 
Planning. Kumasi: Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology.  2Bello, H. (2007). Environmental Sanitation Practices in the core of Ikorodu, Lagos 
state. (Unpublished) Bachelor of Science Dissertation submitted to the 
Department of Urban and Regional Planning Obafemi Awolowo University 
Ile-Ife, Nigeria.  3Adimekwe S.A. (2013). The Impact of Environmental Pollution in Imo State: A 
Case Study of Okigwe Local Government Area. Journal of Educational and 
Social Research 3(5): 79-85.  
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Environmental Sanitation Advocacy in Nigeria 
277 
 
installations4.  It has been documented that about 24% of global 
diseases with high mortality ratio is caused by environmental 
exposures which can be averted. Nevertheless, most of these deaths are 
preventable through adequate environmental sanitation practices. 
Environmental sanitation practices refer to residents’ involvement in 
provision, utilization, and maintenance of environmental sanitation 
facilities and services and adherence to environmental legislation. In 
Nigeria, adequate environmental sanitation practices have not been 
ensured. They are characterized by lack of basic amenities and poor 
sanitation habits. General access to environmental sanitation facilities 
and services by citizens remains very poor. Nigerian cities are 
characterized by rapid population growth which is not accompanied by 
a corresponding increase in the delivery of environmental sanitation 
facilities and services capable of enhancing environmental sanitation 
practices. The resultant effects of these are unsanitary and unhealthy 
environmental conditions that are prevalent in Nigerian urban centres. 
In Africa, the importance of safe environment is garnering the much 
needed attention. Several countries like South Africa and Kenya have 
promulgated laws to ensure that environment is made friendly to 
people and businesses. South African Municipal Services Act Section 73 
explicitly tasked municipalities with the right of access to adequate 
housing, human dignity and safe environment. The section of the 
population that are confronted with poor environmental sanitation 
often lack most basic human needs and are usually victims of poverty, 
diseases and overall poor quality life5.  
The conditions of inadequate environmental sanitation are as a result 
of the attitude of both the government and the populace.  In Anambra 
                                                           4Aremu, A. S. (2012). Assessment of Sanitation Facilities in Primary Schools within 
Ilorin, Nigeria. Journal of Applied Sciences in Environmental Sanitation 
7(1): 29-33.  5 Daramola, O. P. (2012). Clapping With One Hand: The Case of Urban 
Environmental Sanitation Practices In Nigeria Journal of Applied 
Technology in Environmental Sanitation 2(4): 223-228.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR            N. M. Promise and P. C. Victory 
278 
 
State, citizens including companies have formed the habit of 
indiscriminate disposal of wastes along the streets and in the water 
channels. Often times, this was as a result of the government’s inability 
to educate the public, provide waste receptacles and evacuate wastes 
promptly.  More so, the populace sees social infrastructures as not 
belonging to anybody but to the government. The recent upsurge in 
urbanization coupled with inefficient waste management system in 
major cities and some developing towns in Anambra State gives great 
concern. The development simply reflects the situation where 
population is increasing without corresponding increase on waste 
management facilities. Inadequate waste management system in the 
State necessitates the study of the prevailing situation in order to 
ensure that a sustainable system is designed and maintained. An 
Integrated Waste Management System (IWMS) would be required to 
provide comprehensive measure to accomplish all these objectives.  
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) scheme was created in a bid 
to reconstruct, reconcile and rebuild the economy after the Nigerian 
Civil War. It was established by decree No. 24 of 22nd May, 1973 which 
stated that it is being established “with a view to the proper 
encouragement and development of common ties among the youths of 
Nigeria and the promotion of National Unity”. Poverty, mass literacy, 
shortage of skilled manpower, inadequate socio-economic 
infrastructural facilities, disunity,  intolerance,  etc. are other  
conditions  that  plagued  the  country  which  necessitated  the  then 
Yakubu Gowon administration to rethink. The NYSC Community 
Development Service (CDS) is a year-round affair. It is one of the four 
(4) cardinal points of NYSC. Through the CDS, members of the Service 
Corps  work  with  the  local  communities  to  promote  self-reliance  by  
systematically  prospecting  and executing development projects and 
programme which impact positively on the socio-economic 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Environmental Sanitation Advocacy in Nigeria 
279 
 
development of the host communities6. Each Corps Member is 
compulsorily assigned to a particular CDS group as his/her Group CDS, 
while Personal CDS project/programme is optional for interested Corps 
Members. Group CDS is to be attended once in a week and the 
remaining four (4) days for Place of Primary Assignment. Place of 
Primary Assignment is the institutional attachment of Corps Members 
where they are expected to work like staff. The Environmental 
Protection and Sanitation CDS Group of the NYSC is created to do the 
following; 
• To promote and sustain healthy environment  
• To create awareness on sustainable environment management 
and regeneration  
• Tree planting  
• Sanitation  
• Drainage Control  
• Erosion Control  
• Reforestation.  
• Landscaping 
This paper is therefore set to discuss the role of NYSC in environmental 
advocacy in Nigeria. 
 
Problem Justification/Questions 
Poor environmental condition has several consequences on public 
health. Inadequate environmental sanitation system could be related to 
weak laws and unruly attitude of the citizen. In most developing 
countries like Nigeria, the main sanitation related diseases are 
diarrhoea, lower respiratory tract infections and malaria. Diarrhoea 
causes the most death in human than other environmental factors. For 
instance, the WHO estimated deaths resulting from diarrhoea to about 
                                                           6NYSC (2014): NYSC Magazine, The Journal of NYSC Directorate Headquarters. 
Abuja: National Youth Service Corps Service.   
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR            N. M. Promise and P. C. Victory 
280 
 
1.6 to 2.5 million every year. In Nigeria, the reported cases of diarrhoea 
prevalence saw an unprecedented increase from 6,600 in 2013 to 
35,996 in 2014. Furthermore, Nigeria loses about N455 billion annually 
which is equivalent to 1.3% of her Gross Domestic Product (GDP), due 
to poor sanitation as reported by World Bank. 
These factors would need to be addressed holistically in order to 
ensure favourable environmental conditions.  Consequently, the 
research will attempt to find solution to the following problems: 
a. Ineffective environmental and public health laws in 
Nigeria. 
b. Inadequate public health manpower to facilitate 
environmental sanitation in Nigeria. 
c. Incoherent intervention mechanism during outbreak in 
Nigeria. 
d. Inadequate waste management policies and 
programmes in Nigeria. 
e. unruly attitude of the residents towards safe waste 
disposal, personal and community sanitation. 
f. Incompetency in the side of staff and associate private 
sectors involved in waste management in Nigeria. 
To effectively discuss the role of NYSC in environmental advocacy in 
Nigeria, the following pertinent questions are raised to guide this 
paper; 
a. Which Agency is charged with environmental sanitation 
in Anambra State? 
b. How has the effort of different State Waste Management 
Agency impacted to the environment in Nigeria? 
c. What measures are being taken by NYSC Environmental 
Protection and Sanitation CDS group to improve 
hygiene in Nigeria? 
d. Does Anambra State have relevant laws to support 
environmental sanitation in the State? 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Environmental Sanitation Advocacy in Nigeria 
281 
 
e. What are the consequences of poor environmental 
sanitation on public health? 
 
The Study Area  
The study area is Awka, Nnewi and Onitsha, in Anambra State, located 
in south-eastern part of Nigeria. Awka, Nnewi and Onitsha are the 
administrative, commercial and industrial areas in the state. Awka, 
Nnewi and Onitsha in 2006 had a population of 987,1567. These cities 
are mainly covered by six Local Government Areas (LGAs) – Awka 
North, Awka South, Nnewi North, Nnewi South, Onitsha North and 
Onitsha South and the six contains 86 political wards delineated for 
electoral purposes. As common to most typical traditional African 
cities, three homogeneous residential zones are identified in Anmabra. 
These are the core, the transition and the sub-urban. The level of 
development in the residential zones varies with the different historical 
period’s common in African countries: pre-colonial, colonial and post-
colonial.  
Each of these zones is observed to be internally homogeneous in terms 
of physical characteristics, socio-economic status and availability of 
environmental amenities. The core, transition and sub-urban are 
respectively associated with high, medium and low residential areas 
respectively. Pre-colonial development in any African city with long 
historical origin is attributed to the traditional town centre or core of 
the city which is predominantly occupied by indigenes. Residential 
buildings in this zone are closely built together and connected to one 
another with foot paths in a serpentine manner. The houses are mainly 
of traditional courtyard system and Brazilian type (popularly called 
face-me-I-face-you in Nigeria). The zone is usually devoid of adequate 
environmental amenities.  
                                                           7Federal Republic of Nigeria (2017).National Bureau of Statistics. Abuja. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR            N. M. Promise and P. C. Victory 
282 
 
The transition residential zone features house types such as flats and 
face-me-I-face-you which are mostly characterized with road 
accessibility and better provision of environmental amenities. The 
presence of heterogeneity of residents is introduced in this zone as well 
as improved socio-economic characteristics. The sub-urban residential 
zone is characterized with well layout plans. The ethnic composition is 
also heterogeneous and the residents mostly engage in white collar job. 
The building types comprised mainly flats and duplexes with small 
private open spaces. Also, the zone is of better provision environmental 
amenities compared with the other two zones.  
 
Clarification of Concepts 
Environmental Sanitation 
World Health Organization (WHO) defines environmental sanitation as 
the control of all those factors in man’s physical environment which 
exercise deleterious effect on his development, health and survival. The 
definition by the WHO covers all aspect of environment by qualifying it 
with physical. However, it did not qualify the circumstance with certain 
degree that will justify the occurrence deleterious effect. 
Environmental sanitation as the principle and practice of effecting 
healthful and hygienic conditions to promote public health and 
improve quality of life8. The positive nature of this definition 
encompasses all that would be thought of environment. Consequently 
the sanitation is not just limited to physical aspects as propounded by 
WHO but to include all that would enhance quality of life. This 
definition implies some factors like portable water, affordable housing 
and infrastructures. It is therefore necessary to ensure adequate 
environmental sanitation which will involve neatness and orderliness. 
                                                           8Mansaray, A., Ajiboye, J. O., &Audu, U. F. (2018). Environmental Education 
Research, Vol. 4  (3, 10-16.)  Ugolo, M.J. (1998) Enviormental Law Enforcement: 
Roles, option and Methods; Paper presented at a Train – the - Trainers Workshop 
on Environmental Management at Enugu, Nigeria 21-22 May. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Environmental Sanitation Advocacy in Nigeria 
283 
 
The essential environmental sanitation activities include solid waste, 
medical waste, excreta and sewage management. It also includes food 
sanitation, sanitary inspection of premises and school sanitation.   
Furthermore, market and abattoir sanitation, potable water supply, 
pest and vector control, management of urban drainage, control of 
reared and stray animals are also included. Environmental sanitation 
also covers weed and vegetation control, disposal of the dead animals, 
hygiene education and promotion.  
 
Public Health 
Institute of Medicine, USA defined public health as the combination of 
assessment, policy development and assurance that is directed to the 
maintenance and improvement of the health of all the people through 
collective or social actions. It is a set of organized interdisciplinary 
efforts to protect, promote, and restore the public’s health. The mission 
of public health is to promote physical, mental and environmental 
health and prevent disease, injury and disability9. Oxford Textbook of  
Public Health, defined public health as scientific, social and political 
endeavor that aims to improve the wellbeing of communities or 
populations. The scope and concerns in public health, entails process of 
mobilizing and engaging local, state, national, and international 
resources to assure the conditions in which people can be healthy.  The 
definition of Ukpong is apt and covers all necessary aspects as such it is 
adopted for this study. 
 
Waste 
Human being in the process of living and carrying out daily activities 
intentionally and unintentionally generate unwanted products. These 
products, which are termed as waste, need to be properly managed to 
avoid littering and polluting the environment or constituting health 
                                                           9Ukpong, S. (2015) Environmental Education batis Calabar. Saju Institution and 
Research    
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR            N. M. Promise and P. C. Victory 
284 
 
hazards. Waste is defined as that which is cheaper to throw away than 
to make further use of. The researcher views this definition as 
inadequate, as certainly some wastes are cheaper to reuse or recycle 
than to discard. Waste could be distinguished from product because 
product could be sold at positive prices while waste cannot. The 
economic assumption underlying this definition is faulty because waste 
materials can be profitably sold. Typical example is most oil palm 
companies in Nigeria that export palm kernel residue, a waste product, 
to Europe thus earning foreign exchange. Omole opines that waste is 
not a prime product. He asserts that waste can arise from 2 sources, 
production or manufacture and discarding leftovers. Waste therefore 
arises out of activities of man and nature. Waste is an inevitable by-
product from the use of natural and manmade resources10. The amount 
and make-up of waste in any given area depends on population density, 
economic prosperity, time of year, type of housing and waste 
minimization initiatives.  
Waste production can be minimized by adopting the principles of 
Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle (3R)11. This process can reduce the wastes 
generated by approximately 50 per cent. 
 
Recycle    
The process of recycling has diverted several million tons of material 
away from disposal. Recycled materials include batteries, paper and 
paperboard and yard trimmings.   These materials and others may be 
recycled through drop off centres, buy-back programmes and deposit 
systems.   Recycling prevents the emission of many greenhouse gases 
                                                           10Omole.(2013). Poverty, Sanitation and Public Health Nexus Implications on Core 
Residential Neighbourhood of Akure, Nigeria. International Journal of 
Developing Societies 2(3): 96-104.  11 Stern, P.C. (22013). Poverty, Sanitation and Public Health Nexus Implications on 
Core Residential Neighbourhood of Akure, Nigeria. International Journal 
of Developing Societies 2(3): 96-104.  
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Environmental Sanitation Advocacy in Nigeria 
285 
 
that affect global climate, water pollutants, saves energy, supplies 
valuable raw materials to industry and creates jobs.   It stimulates the 
development of greener technologies, conserves resources and reduces 
the need for new landfills and combustors. Recycling can create 
valuable resources and it generates a host of environmental, financial, 
and social benefits. Materials like glass, metal, plastics, and paper are 
collected, separated and sent to processing centres where they are 
processed into new products.  
 
Types and Management of Wastes 
The management of waste depends on the physical state of such waste. 
Waste could be disposed without having any further value while some 
others could be processed and utilized as input in other production 
lines. Recent technology has enhanced ways of handling wastes by 
using modern machinery and processes to convert waste to inputs for 
other processes like power generation. Wastes are classified into liquid, 
gaseous and solid wastes12.  
 
Solid Wastes 
Solid waste is usually classified according its sources, for instance, 
there are Municipal Solid Waste (MSW), industrial waste, agricultural 
waste and construction waste among others. Amongst all these types of 
solid waste MSW is mostly common to all strata of the population. 
Whenever reference is made to heaps or litters of waste on the streets, 
it is simply referring to MSW. It is therefore in this light that 
discussions on solid waste will primarily be center on MSW. The term 
MSW is generally used to describe most of the non-hazardous solid 
waste from a city, town or village that requires routine collection and 
transport to a processing or disposal site. Sources of MSW include 
private homes, commercial establishments and institutions, as well as 
                                                           12 Anijah-Obi, F. N. (2011). Fundamentals of Environmental Education and 
management: Calabar: University of Calabar Press.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR            N. M. Promise and P. C. Victory 
286 
 
industrial facilities13. However, MSW does not include wastes from 
industrial processes, construction and demolition debris, sewage 
sludge, mining waste or agricultural wastes. MSW is also called trash or 
garbage. Municipal solid waste contains a wide variety of materials like 
food waste classified as wet garbage and paper, plastic and bottles 
classified as dry garbage.  
Waste treatment techniques seek to transform the waste into a form 
that is more manageable, reduce the volume or toxicity of the waste 
thus making the waste easier for disposal. Treatment methods are 
selected based on the composition, quantity, and form of the waste. 
Some waste treatment methods being used today include incineration, 
open burning, sanitary landfills, control dumping, composting and 
Integrated Waste Management System (IWMS). The IWMS takes an 
overall approach of creating sustainable system that would be 
affordable, socially acceptable and environmentally friendly. An IWMS 
system involves selection of different treatment methods most suitable 
for waste management in an area. It should be noted that treatment 
and disposal options are chosen as a last resort to waste minimization 
strategies. 
 
Liquid Wastes  
Liquid wastes include effluents of industries, fertilizer and pesticide 
solutions from agricultural fields; leach ate from landfills, urban runoff 
of untreated waste water and mining wastes. Boakye classified liquid 
wastes in Nigeria as being largely untreated and are discharged into 
open drains, streams, rivers or sea14. There is practically no city in 
                                                           13 Shanghai, A. C. (2014). The socio-cultural and economic Factors in environmental 
protection, Paper presented at a seminar for environmental Health 
Officers in the United Local Government Service of Delta State. 2224 
August. 14Boakye, S (2013). Understanding the importance of environmental Education: An 
examination of I have a clean San Diego: A Local Environmental 
Nenprofit Org. ESYS 190B Senior Project June 2.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Environmental Sanitation Advocacy in Nigeria 
287 
 
Nigeria with a comprehensive sewage treatment system. These liquid 
domestic and industrial wastes are causing serious environmental 
degradation. Furthermore, some liquid wastes contain metals, 
industrial chemicals and pesticides. These elements modify the natural 
habitats of areas they pass. Uncontrolled flow of liquid waste 
encourages spread of diseases as it contaminates water bodies along its 
course. There are 2 main methods of treating liquid wastes and these 
are sewage treatment and removal of ammonia. Sewage treatment 
could be through dilution, mechanical, biological or chemical treatment. 
The process of the removal of ammonia involves the treatment of 
industrial effluents with chemical or primary treatment by methods of 
neutralization, sedimentation, coagulation and precipitation.  This 
would be followed by biological or secondary treatment using activated 
sludge and trickling filter method. Finally, the treatment will be 
concluded using the tertiary treatment by methods of reverse osmosis 
or chemical oxidation. 
 
Gaseous Wastes  
Gaseous wastes refer to the wastes released into the atmosphere in the 
form of gases from automobiles, factories and burning of fossil fuels. 
The gaseous wastes include carbon dioxide, methane, 
chlorofluorocarbo, oxides of nitrogen, carbon monoxide and oxides of 
sulfur. These gaseous wastes can cause serious environmental hazards. 
It is therefore, very important to take appropriate steps for the proper 
management and control of gaseous wastes in the environment.  
Gaseous wastes could be managed using any of the listed measures: 
a. The gaseous pollutant can be removed by absorption in 
wet scrubbers. 
b. The use of smokeless chulhas, solar cookers and biogas 
can reduce the production of smoke. 
c. The industries should use precipitators, scrubbers and 
filters to check production of particulate matter. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR            N. M. Promise and P. C. Victory 
288 
 
d.  The emission of hydrocarbons from vehicles can be 
checked by the use of unleaded petrol. 
 
Forms of Environmental Sanitation and Diseases Associated with 
Poor Sanitation 
Environmental sanitation entails different activities which will 
contribute to clean and safe environment. Among these activities are 
water and environmental sanitation, air sanitation including personal 
and community hygiene15. These are discussed in the following 
paragraphs. 
 
Water and Environment Sanitation 
Sanitation is not only considered to be critical for dignity and health, it 
is also the most basic form of source water protection. The failure to 
control seepage and effluent by allowing them into water bodies will 
necessitate huge cost for treatment and purification of water for 
drinking and domestic uses. In 1990, at the World Summit for Children, 
a resolution on universal access to safe water and sanitation by the 
year 2000 was adopted. This was with the aim of promoting the 
survival, protection and development of children. Hutton explained 
that during the period 1990-2000, US$15.7 billion investment was 
made to water supply and sanitation improvement in developing 
regions16. Poor water and sanitation have a number of both direct and 
indirect impacts to human health. The most direct impacts are the 
hazards on the environment, human being and ecological habitat.  Poor 
quality water infects human beings with various forms of disease. The 
common ones are diarrhoea, helminthes and trachoma that lead to 
                                                           15 Diettz, T., Stem, P. & Guagnamo, G. (2018). Social structural and social 
psychological bases of environmental concerns: Environment and 
Behaviour. 30      16 Hutton. (2018). Environmental values and the subjective assessment of 
residential quality: Dissertation Abstracts International 41 (1), 433 A  
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Environmental Sanitation Advocacy in Nigeria 
289 
 
blindness.   Several diseases impacts negatively on society in terms of 
healthiness, productivity and output.   In addition to these direct 
effects, inadequate water management policies can also expose the 
population to vector-borne diseases like malaria. The implication of 
these demerits is that, adequate plan must be made to prevent seepage 
and effluent flowing into water bodies. In addition, arrangement would 
be made for quick response in case there is any outbreak to prevent 
spreading. 
 
Air Sanitation 
Air pollution, both indoors and outdoors, is a major environmental 
health and economic problems, affecting developed and developing 
countries alike. According to Sherbinin, an estimated 3 million deaths 
occur each year as a result of air pollution. They further estimated that 
about 1.4 billion urban residents breathe air that exceeds WHO air 
quality guidelines worldwide17. These guidelines have provided 
background information that enables countries to set their national air 
quality standards in the context of existing environmental and 
economic conditions. The Air Management Information System (AMIS) 
of WHO, which assesses trends in ambient air pollution, has been 
planned as a component of WHO’s Global Air Quality Partnership. This 
partnership brought together UN agencies, international and 
governmental institutions, research/academic bodies as well as Non-
Governmental Agencies (NGO) in collaborative information sharing. 
The continuous and uncontrolled gas flaring by oil companies and 
fumes from manufacturing companies are aggravating consequences of 
air pollution in Nigeria.   As a result, comprehensive air pollution 
control programme that will include adoption of a multidisciplinary 
approach and collaborative efforts of different entities are necessary. 
                                                           17 Sherbinin (2011).The significance of household characteristics on housing quality 
in Nigeria Journal and geography and planning science.2 (2) 1- 10. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR            N. M. Promise and P. C. Victory 
290 
 
The programme would include various technical, legal, and economic 
instruments also administrative and jurisdictional arrangements being 
used to control pollution. Exposure to biomass smoke has been 
confirmed to be disastrous to human health both children and adults. 
Potential solutions to the problems associated with use of biogas in 
poor countries are highly dependent on the specific needs of a 
particular household energy system. Measures that could be taken to 
address the problem include improved stoves, cleaner fuels and 
housing modifications. The prime benefit of these preventive actions is 
low mortality rate through reduced exposure to indoor air pollution.  
The link between poor water quality, sanitation and hygiene with 
health is broad and mutual. Diseases such as diarrhoea, 
schistosomiasis, trachoma and intestinal nematode infections are still 
prevalent today, and suffered by a large number of people, mainly in 
developing countries. In the year 2015, WHO estimated 4 billion cases 
of diarrhoea, with diarrhoeal diseases accounting for 2.2 million deaths 
worldwide that is about 5% of total deaths. 
Human excreta have been associated with the transmission of many 
infectious diseases including cholera, typhoid, infectious hepatitis, 
polio, cryptosporidiosis, and ascariasis18. Poor sanitation gives many 
infections the ideal opportunity to spread. Sherbinin noted that among 
human parasitic diseases, schistosomias is ranks second behind 
malaria in terms of socio-economic and public health consideration in 
tropical and subtropical areas. He also stated that, the disease is 
endemic in 74 developing countries, infecting more than 200 million 
people. Of these, 20 million suffer severe consequences from the 
disease. 
Infection with trachoma is the leading global cause of preventable 
blindness. Trachoma is closely linked to poor sanitation and is one of 
                                                           18 National Policy on Environment (1989), Lagos; Federal enviormental Protection 
Agency   
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Environmental Sanitation Advocacy in Nigeria 
291 
 
the best examples of an infection readily preventable through basic 
hygiene. Six million people worldwide are permanently blind due to 
Trachoma. Trachoma is spread by a combination of poor sanitation, 
and allowing the flies that spread the infection to breed. It is also 
caused by poor hygiene associated with water scarcity, poor water 
quality and lack of understanding of how easily the infection can 
spread. 
 
Analysis of results/Hypotheses 
There is no significant relationship between the NYSC environmental 
protection advocacy and environmental sanitation in terms of 
classroom sanitation, school compound sanitation and provision of 
refuse dumps. The independent variable in this hypothesis is 
environmental protection advocacy while the dependent variable is the 
role of NYSC in school sanitation in terms of classroom sanitation, 
school compound sanitation and provision of refuse dumps. The 
hypothesis was tested using Pearson’s Product Moment Correlation 
statistics since the variables were measured on a continuous scale. The 
results are shown table 1.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR            N. M. Promise and P. C. Victory 
292 
 
Table 15.1: Pearson product Moment Correlation of environmental 
awareness and school sanitation in terms of classroom sanitation, 
school compound sanitation and provision of refuse dumps (N = 300).  
Variables   X  SD  ∑X2  
 
∑Y2  
 
∑XY 
 
 
R  
Sig.   
 
Level  
Environmental 
protection 
advocacy 
15.443  2.144  1604.357     
Classroom 
sanitation  
14.511  2.161  162.454  1161.729  .719  .000  
School 
compound  
sanitation   
14.957  2.375  1968.357  1023.643  .576  .000  
Provision of 
refuse dumps   
15.094  2.103  1543.889  957.386  .620  .000  
*  p< .05, df = 298 critical r = 01113  
 
The result indicates that the calculated value for environmental 
protection advocacy and environmental sanitation is .719, which 
implies that there is a positive relationship between NYSC 
environmental protection advocacy and environmental sanitation in 
Anambra State. The positive relationship means that as the NYSC 
environmental protection advocacy increases, environmental 
sanitation also increases and vice versa. Since the calculated r value 
(.719) is greater than the critical r value of 0.113 at .05 significant level 
and 298 degrees of freedom, it means that the observed positive 
relationship between environmental protection advocacy and 
classroom sanitation is statistically significant. Therefore, the null 
hypothesis is rejected. Also, for environmental protection advocacy and 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Environmental Sanitation Advocacy in Nigeria 
293 
 
environmental sanitation, the calculated r value is .576, which indicates 
that there is a positive relationship between the two variables. In other 
words, as the NYSC environmental advocacy increases, environmental 
sanitation also increases and vice versa. As it is, the observed positive 
relationship is statistically significant because the calculated r value 
(.576) is greater than the critical r value of 0.113 at .05 significance 
level and 298 degrees of freedom. This means that there is a significant 
positive relationship between the NYSC environmental protection 
advocacy and environmental sanitation in Nigeria. The null hypothesis 
is therefore rejected. Similarly, for environmental protection advocacy 
and provision of refuse dumps, the results in table 1 indicate that the 
calculated r value is .620. This implies that there is a positive 
relationship between environmental awareness and provision of refuse 
dumps. Indeed the positive relationship means that as environmental 
protection advocacy increases, provision of refuse dumps also 
increases, and vice versa. Again since the calculated value (.620) is 
greater than the critical value of 0.113 at .05 significance level and 298 
degrees of freedom, it means that the observed positive relationship 
between the two variables is statistically significant. Therefore the null 
hypothesis is rejected.    
Also lack of proper implementation of environmental education at all 
levels of education in the state could be responsible for the low level of 
environmental awareness observed in the area19. The findings support 
Ebong, who attributed most urban problems to lack of public 
awareness on matters concerning the environment. He therefore 
recommended a well-articulated environmental education as a panacea 
for solving these problems. According to him, for Environmental 
Education to be effective and result oriented, it must involve a wide 
                                                           19 EbongInyang- (2002). Dimension of literacy for all by the year 2000: implication 
for Teachers Education and Media Design and Publication, in A. O. 
Abodeni et al: Literacy and Reading in Nigeria, Vol. 6 CalabarUnical 
Computer Centre   
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR            N. M. Promise and P. C. Victory 
294 
 
range of methods and strategies aimed at increasing public awareness 
and understanding, as well as sensitivity and concern for their 
environment. A well-articulated Environmental Education programme 
will also enable people to be responsive, willing and committed to 
issues affecting the environment.   
 
Discussion of Results   
The statistical analysis carried out on the above hypothesis showed 
that environmental protection advocacy has a significant relationship 
with environmental sanitation in terms of classroom sanitation, school 
compound sanitation and provision of refuse dumps. This implies that 
the desire and need of school personnel to maintain a healthy school 
environment depends completely on their level of awareness 
concerning the environment. School personnel who are aware that the 
environment is part of their existence tend to make their schools 
convenient and conducive for teaching and learning with the 
availability of eco-friendly facilities. In other words, school personnel 
who know the negative impact of poor and substandard environment 
on human health and teaching and learning are more likely to maintain 
quality school sanitation in terms of classroom sanitation, school 
compound sanitation and provision of refuse dumps than those with 
little or no knowledge or awareness. It is obvious that school personnel 
with good level of environmental awareness would likely carry out 
varying environmentally friendly activities, these would include 
keeping their classrooms clean, providing dust bin around the school 
premise, cleaning up toilets and gutters, sweeping their surroundings, 
planting trees to create buffer zones for the regulation of the local 
temperature and disposing waste in an eco-friendly manner. The choice 
of keeping classrooms clean, school compound tidy and providing 
refuse dumps depends on school personnel awareness of inherent 
consequences of either lack of or wrong choice of these basic features 
of a school in terms of durability and safety, in coming solar radiation 
and reflexivity, and air movement. For instance, if school personnel are 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Environmental Sanitation Advocacy in Nigeria 
295 
 
aware of the health and environmental implications of indiscriminate 
disposal of waste in the school environment, they would be motivated 
to make provision for facilities to collect and dispose waste in the 
regular sanitation of their school environment, and avoid 
indiscriminate disposal of refuse.    
 The observed positive environmental behaviour is purely due to the 
fact that, through environmental awareness, NYSC members have come 
to gain ample knowledge of the workings of the school environment 
and the consequences of not taking good care of the school 
environment. The result of the study with respect to this hypothesis 
further highlights the importance of environmental awarenes in 
tackling school sanitation problems. It is therefore imperative that all 
aspects of human development should incorporate environment 
education components to address behavioural factors and enhance 
public participation and active involvement in environmental issues.  
 
Conclusion and Recommendations 
From the result of the study, it was concluded that environmental 
protection and sanitation advocacy and awareness significantly relates 
to environmental sanitation in terms of classroom sanitation, school 
compound sanitation and provision of refuse dumps of schools where 
NYSC Members are posted to serve. That is, environment protection 
advocacy and awareness leads to the maintenance of classroom 
sanitation, school compound sanitation and provision of refuse dumps 
which in turns have positive impact on the health of their students both 
in Anambra State and the Nigerian nation at large. To enhance the 
above; the study came up with the following recommendations; 
1. Adequate measures should be put in place where 
environmental awareness is sustained in the secondary 
schools in Anambra State. This will not only increase the 
principal and teachers awareness about environmental 
issues, but also sensitize the students, with this measure; 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR            N. M. Promise and P. C. Victory 
296 
 
every member of the school is not only carried along in the 
environmental sanitation drive but every member of the 
society.  
2. NYSC Environmental Protection and Sanitation group 
Environmental experts should be brought to the schools 
once in a while to mount workshops or seminars on school 
sanitation. This will equip the school community with the 
necessary information and knowledge in the maintenance 
of a healthy school environment. 
3. The government would require taking conscious steps in 
tackling the environmental sanitation menace in the state. 
The strategies to be taken to enhance the situation include 
engaging more private sectors through PPP, citizen 
mobilization and environmental education. Others include 
strengthening of the Anambra State Waste Management 
Agency (ASWAMA), adequate town planning structure, 
waste reduction techniques and waste to wealth methods. 
4. To ensure effective waste management, the NYSC must 
continue to mobilize the citizens through sensitization and 
environmental education. Sensitization will bring about 
adequate citizen participation and private sector 
partnership.  The public agency such as ASWAMA alone 
cannot achieve success in waste management without 
corresponding positive collaboration with the citizens and 
the private sector.   Citizens and public sensitization will 
bring about the much needed development and initiation of 
neighborhood spirit. The residents will then develop a 
sense of belonging, some emotional attachment to their 
neighborhood and thus display a sense of commitment to 
the cleanliness of the neighborhood. 
5. Anambra State town planners need to re-examine their 
objectives especially in the upcoming cities and try to 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Environmental Sanitation Advocacy in Nigeria 
297 
 
address the issue of waste management generation.   They 
will need to make provision for appropriate waste center 
where waste management team to pick up garbage for 
proper disposal. If waste management issues is taken and 
handle properly then it would be another source of 
generating revenue.  This will enhance the economy and as 
well contribute to the standard of living of the citizen by 
creating employment opportunities.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR            N. M. Promise and P. C. Victory 
298 
 
References   
Acheampong, P. T. (2010). Environmental Sanitation in the Kumasi 
Metropolitan Area. A Master of Science Thesis Submitted to the 
Department of Planning. Kumasi: Kwame Nkrumah University 
of Science and Technology.  
Adimekwe S.A. (2013). The Impact of Environmental Pollution in Imo 
State: A Case Study of Okigwe Local Government Area. Journal 
of Educational and Social Research 3(5): 79-85.  
Anijah-Obi, F. N. (2011). Fundamentals of Environmental Education and 
management: Calabar: University of Calabar Press.  
Aremu, A. S. (2012). Assessment of Sanitation Facilities in Primary 
Schools within Ilorin, Nigeria. Journal of Applied Sciences in 
Environmental Sanitation 7(1): 29-33.  
Bello, H. (2007). Environmental Sanitation Practices in the core of 
Ikorodu, Lagos state. (Unpublished) Bachelor of Science 
Dissertation submitted to the Department of Urban and 
Regional Planning ObafemiAwolowo University Ile-Ife, Nigeria.  
Boakye, S (2013). Understanding the importance of environmental 
Education: An examination of I have a clean San Diego: A Local 
Environmental Nenprofit Org. ESYS 190B Senior Project June 2.  
Daramola, O. P. (2012). Clapping With One Hand: The Case of Urban 
Environmental Sanitation Practices In Nigeria Journal of 
Applied Technology in Environmental Sanitation 2(4): 223-228.  
Diettz, T., Stem, P. &Guagnamo, G. (2018). Social structural and social 
psychological bases of environmental concerns: Environment 
and Behaviour. 30      
EbongInyang- (2002). Dimension of literacy for all by the year 2000: 
implication for Teachers Education and Media Design and 
Publication, in A. O. Abodeni et al: Literacy and Reading in 
Nigeria, Vol. 6 CalabarUnical Computer Centre   
Federal Republic of Nigeria (2017).National Bureau of Statistics. 
Abuja. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Environmental Sanitation Advocacy in Nigeria 
299 
 
Hutton. (2018). Environmental values and the subjective assessment of 
residential quality: Dissertation Abstracts International 41 (1), 
433 A  
Mansaray, A., Ajiboye, J. O., &Audu, U. F. (2018). Environmental 
Education Research, Vol. 4  (3, 10-16.)  Ugolo, M.J. (1998) 
Enviormental Law Enforcement: Roles, option and  Methods; Paper 
presented at a Train – the - Trainers Workshop on Environmental 
 Management at Enugu, Nigeria 21-22 May.     
National Policy on Environment (1989), Lagos; Federal enviormental 
Protection Agency   
NYSC (2014): NYSC Magazine, The Journal of NYSC Directorate 
Headquarters. Abuja:  National Youth Service Corps Service.   
NYSC (2011a): National Youth Service Corps: Bye Laws 2011. Abuja: 
National Youth Service Corps Service.   
Shanghai, A. C.(2014). The socio-cultural and economic Factors in 
enviormental protection, Paper presented at a seminar for 
enviormental Health Officers in the United Local Government 
Service of Delta State. 2224 August. 
Sherbinin (2011).The significance of household characteristics on 
housing quality in Nigeria Journal and geography and planning 
science.2 (2) 1- 10. 
Stern, P.C. (22013). Poverty, Sanitation and Public Health Nexus 
Implications on Core Residential Neighbourhood of Akure, 
Nigeria. International Journal of Developing Societies 2(3): 96-
104.  
Omole.(2013). Poverty, Sanitation and Public Health Nexus 
Implications on Core Residential Neighbourhood of Akure, 
Nigeria. International Journal of Developing Societies 2(3): 96-
104.  
Ukpong, S. (2015) Environmental Education batis Calabar. Saju 
Institution and Research    
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                                  Abubakar Ishaq 
300 
 
 11 1166 66    
    NYSC and the Campaign for a Drug Free Society in 
Partnership with National Drugs Law Enforcement 
Agency (NDLEA) 
 
 
Abubakar Ishaq 
 
 
Introduction 
Illicit drug use and substance abuse have become a serious threat to 
public health and law enforcement globally. Drug abuse is a health and 
social problem with distinct conditions and problems that vary locally. 
The use of psychoactive substances among adolescents and youths has 
become a subject of public concern worldwide due to the fact that it 
contributes potentially to deliberate or undeliberate harm/injury. Drug 
abuse, addictions and trafficking has a universal propaganda that 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the Campaign for a Drug Free Society in Partnership... 
301 
 
transverse across socioeconomic, cultural, religious, and ethnic 
boundaries.1 The issue of drug abuse in Nigeria has turned out to be a 
serious problem to the moral and health status of larger number of its 
population. The practice of substance abuse in Nigeria was said to be an 
old tradition but its growth was attached to the return of Nigerians who 
served as soldiers to Great Britain during the World War 2 in areas of 
Burma and India. This soldiers brought seeds of cannabis and initiate2 
it’s planting and use in Nigeria. With this, drug trafficking and abuse 
continued to grow. 
In response to the upsurge of trafficking and illegal use of psychoactive 
substances in the country and following the coming into force of the 
global 1988 Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotics Drugs and 
Psychotropic Substances, the military government of General Sani 
Abacha, in what was perhaps the most drastic development in Nigeria’s 
drug control history, enacted the National Drugs Law Enforcement 
Agency (NDLEA) Decree No. 48 of 1989. The agency was charged with 
the responsibility of eliminating the growing, processing, 
manufacturing, selling, exporting, and trafficking of hard drugs.3 The 
agency therefore carried out strategic operations, training, campaign 
and rehabilitation exercise with aim of achieving their target goal. 
However, these efforts did little in addressing the problem. 
In recent years, there has been a consistent spate in the number of 
cases especially among adolescents (10-25 years of age). 
Experimentation with drugs during adolescence turns to be a common 
                                                           1Ogunsola Samuel and Fajemisin EA, Experiences and projections for Drug Abuse 
Sensitization and Eradication among youths in South West Nigeria, .Journal of 
Alcoholism Drug Abuse & Substance Dependence vol.6: 018, 2020, p1 2Hauwa’uAbdullahi, The Impact of Drug on Student’s Academic Performance: A 
case Study of Faculty Of Social and Management Sciences, Umaru Musa Yar’adua 
University Katsina, 2016, p12 3Ifeoma P. Okafor, Causes and Consequences of Drug Abuse among Youth in 
Kwara State, Nigeria, Canadian Journal of Family and Youth, 12(1), 2020,p2 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                                  Abubakar Ishaq 
302 
 
practice in Nigeria. At this age, they desire to explore many things due 
to several factors like: curiosity, peer pressure and to relieve stress. 
Using gateway drugs especially alcohol and tobacco due to early 
exposure increases the risk of using other hard drugs later. Some 
adolescents experiment and stop or continue to use occasionally 
without having negative complications. Others develop addiction that 
makes them move into more dangerous drugs and causing significant 
harm to themselves and possibly others: family and community.4 The 
National Drugs Law Enforcement Agency was forced to device another 
means of controlling drug abuse in Nigeria hence the idea of 
collaborating with community, youth based, Non-Governmental 
organisation as well as the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC). 
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) being an agent for national 
and social integration was considered as a tool for fighting drug abuse. 
It was against this that federal government called on NYSC to partner 
with NDLEA and help control drug abuse spread among youth. Since 
the establishment of this partnership, NYSC has been   playing a vital 
role in the fight against drug abuse in Nigeria through various activities 
and initiatives. Most notable has been for the Youth against drug abuse 
campaign, a school-based programme aimed at informing children on 
the dangers of drug abuse; and parents on the signs to look out for; as 
well as rendering help to those already on drugs among many other 
activities.5 The aim of this paper is therefore to explore the role of NYSC 
and NDLEA partnership on the campaign for a drug free society. The 
work will also look at challenges of the campaign operation and also 
suggest ways of addressing those challenges. 
 
 
                                                           4Ogunsola Samuel and Fajemisin EA, Experiences and projections for Drug 
Abuse…P2 5Ogunsola Samuel and Fajemisin EA, Experiences and projections for Drug 
Abuse…P2 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the Campaign for a Drug Free Society in Partnership... 
303 
 
Conceptual Clarification 
Drugs: Drugs are chemicals that affect the body and brain. Different 
drugs can have different effects. Some effects of drugs include health 
consequences that are long-lasting and permanent. They can even 
continue after a person has stopped taking the substance.  Historically, 
drugs have been linked to magical-religious rituals, celebrations and 
social events. Gradually their use became widespread in other contexts. 
Some of these substances are natural in origin, as is the case with 
tobacco or cannabis. Others are the result of chemical processes carried 
out using natural products, like what occurs with alcoholic beverages, 
which are obtained from the fermentation or distillation of grain or 
fruit juice. Drugs are also produced artificially6.  According to Sussman, 
“A drug is a substance that can be taken into the human 
body and, once taken, alters some processes within the 
body. Drugs can be used in the diagnosis, prevention, 
or treatment of a disease. Some drugs are used to kill 
bacteria and help the body recover from infections. 
Some drugs assist in terminating headaches. Some 
drugs cross the blood–brain barrier and affect 
neurotransmitter function.”7 
There are a few ways a person can take drugs, including injection, 
inhalation and ingestion. The effects of the drug on the body can 
depend on how the drug is delivered. For example, the injection of 
drugs directly into the bloodstream has an immediate impact, while 
                                                           6Sussman, Steve, and Susan L. Ames. “Concepts of Drugs, Drug Use, Misuse, and 
Abuse.” Chapter. In Drug Abuse: Concepts, Prevention, and Cessation, Cambridge 
Studies on Child and Adolescent Health, (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 
2008) Pp3 
7Sussman, Steve, and Susan L. Ames. “Concepts of Drugs, Drug Use, Misuse, and 
Abuse.”…. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                                  Abubakar Ishaq 
304 
 
ingestion has a delayed effect. The use of drugs are usually guided by 
medical prescription to regulate and set the level of its function on 
human body. Misused of drugs affect the brain. They cause large 
amounts of dopamine, a neurotransmitter that helps regulate our 
emotions, motivation and feelings of pleasure, to flood the brain and 
produce a “high.” Eventually, drugs can change how the brain works 
and interfere with a person’s ability to make choices.8 
 
Drug Abuse: Drug abuse refers to the use of certain chemicals for the 
purpose of creating pleasurable effect on the brain. The term may also 
be defined as the “arbitrary” over dependence or mis-use of one 
particular drug with or without a prior medical diagnosis from 
qualified health practitioners. It also refers to the harmful use of mind 
altering drugs. It added that the term usually refers to problem with 
illegal drugs, which also include harmful use of legal prescription drugs, 
Such as in self-medication. It is important to know that there is a 
misconception about the terms “drug abuse” and “drug misuse” 
however, both concepts are pivotal in drug abuse therapy. Contextually, 
drug abuse describes the non-medical, self-administration of a 
substance to induce psychoactive effects, intoxication or altered body 
image, despite the knowledge of its potential adverse effects 
meanwhile drug misuse implies that a drug has a proper medical use 
and prescription and is being employed for an incorrect purpose. The 
well noted examples of drug misuse are observed in cases of self-
prescription and drug overdose. These come with grave consequences 
such as altered metabolism and several systemic organ dysfunctions.9 
                                                           8Hauwa’uAbdullahi, The Impact of Drug on Student’s Academic Performance: A 
case Study of Faculty Of Social and Management…p16 9Sussman, Steve, and Susan L. Ames. “Concepts of Drugs, Drug Use, Misuse, and 
Abuse…p4 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the Campaign for a Drug Free Society in Partnership... 
305 
 
One major consequence of drug abuse is dependence and addiction, 
characterized by compulsive drug cravings seeking behaviors and use 
that persist even in the face of negative consequences. These changes 
are maladaptive and inappropriate to the social or environmental 
settings, therefore may place the individual at risk of harm. Today, 
more than 7 million people suffer from an illicit drug disorder, and one 
in four deaths results from illicit drug use. In fact, more deaths, 
illnesses and disabilities are associated with drug abuse than any other 
preventable health condition. People suffering from drug and alcohol 
addiction also have a higher risk of unintentional injuries, accidents 
and domestic violence incidents.10 
The use of drugs for social rather than prescribed medical reasons has 
for long been possessing threat to national development. A comparison 
with other third world countries reveals that Nigeria ranks among the 
highest users of dangerous drugs such as alcohol, tobacco, cannabis, 
benzodiazepines, cocaine and opioids. This clearly indicates that there 
has been a steady increase in the prevalence of drug use and its 
associated consequences especially within the last three decades. 
Almost all types of psychoactive substances are available in Nigeria due 
to their spill over into the streets from drug traffickers who use Nigeria 
as a conduit to transport drugs from South East-Asia and South 
America to Europe and North America.11 
This prevalence is high and more pronounced among youths especially 
students. The desire to explore, experiment and peer pressures are 
factors responsible for these prevalence. Studies conducted have 
shown that more than 80% of Nigeria’s population are used to non-
prescribed drug usage which in many case leads to addiction. Another 
                                                           10Ogunsola Samuel and Fajemisin EA, Experiences and projections for Drug 
Abuse…p1 11Ogunsola Samuel and Fajemisin EA, Experiences and projections for Drug 
Abuse…p4 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                                  Abubakar Ishaq 
306 
 
study pointed out that over 60% of youth in Nigeria claimed they are 
aware of drug abuse but contrarily demonstrated poor knowledge and 
awareness.12 
 
Drug Policy and the Establishment Of National Drugs Law 
Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) 
Drug abuse has been an old practice in Nigeria which was said to have 
been existence since time immemorial. However, what defines drug 
abuse and policies to regulate it was introduced during the colonial 
period. The first known law against drugs abuse and trafficking in 
Nigeria is the Dangerous Drugs Ordinance of 1935. This ordinance 
guided the then Board of Customs and Excise and the Nigerian Police 
under the colonial government to tackle drugs abuse and trafficking 
locally. Thereafter, the Indian hemp (Cannabis) Decree of 1966 was 
promulgated by the military government of General Aguiyi Ironsi. 
Under this Decree, cultivation of cannabis attracted the death penalty 
or 21 years in jail, and exportation was punishable by 10 years of 
imprisonment. Also under the decree, a stiff penalty of at least 10 years 
in jail was reserved for those found smoking or in possession of the 
drug, Federal Military Government (1966). The decree was amended in 
1975 and the punitive provisions were made less severe. Hence, the 
amendment expunged the death penalty for the cultivation of cannabis, 
while the punishment for cannabis smoking was lessened to six months 
and/or a fine.13 
However, in 1984 the military government of General Muhammadu 
Buhari changed the punitive provisions of the Indian Hemp Decree of 
1966 (Amended) by re-introducing the death penalty which the 
                                                           12Ogunsola Samuel and Fajemisin EA, Experiences and projections for Drug 
Abuse… 13Ugwuoke Kelvin Abuchi, Mfon Fintan Bassey and Omotola Kazeem Dauda, Drug 
Policy and Control in Nigeria: The Role of the National Drugs Law Enforcement 
Agency, Novel Approaches in Drug Designing & Development, vol. 4, issue 5, 2019, 
p118 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the Campaign for a Drug Free Society in Partnership... 
307 
 
original decree stipulated. Also under the repealed law, any person 
under the age of 17 years was to be given 21 strokes of the cane, 2 
years in prison or fine of N200.00 for smoking or possession. A special 
Tribunal Decree was set up in the later part of 1984. The decree 
abolished death penalty on drug abuse due to public outcry which 
greeted it. However, the decree instituted life imprisonment for 
importing, manufacturing, producing, processing, planting or growing 
of cocaine, Cannabis, Lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD), heroin or other 
narcotic drugs, imprisonment not exceeding 20 years for exporting, 
transporting or trafficking. A jail term of not less than 14 years for 
selling, buying, exposing for sale or dealing was instituted, 
imprisonment of not less than 2 years (but not more than 10 years) for 
possession or consumption. Forfeiture of asset and passport was also 
instituted and a special tribunal was set up solely for enforcement of 
drugs laws. In 1986, with the coming of a new military government of 
General Ibrahim Babangida, the 1984 Decree was amended and life 
imprisonment was substituted for the death penalty. This Special 
Tribunal (Amendment) Decree of 1986 introduced new features into 
Nigerian drug law, the most significant of which was the provision 
regarding forfeiture of assets and passport.14 
The most significant development and drug control policy in Nigeria 
was enacted in 1989 by the Military government of General Sani 
Abacha. Following the disturbance of increase in drug trafficking and 
the United Nations Convention against Illicit Trafficking in Narcotics 
Drugs and Psychotropic Substances of 1988, the Decree No. 48 of 1989 
was enacted leading to the establishment of the National Drugs Law 
Enforcement Agency (NDLEA).The agency’s primary mandate was to 
tackle the menace of drugs abuse and trafficking which was spoiling the 
image of the country at that time as the United States government was 
beginning to express its unhappiness with the Nigerian government 
                                                           14Ugwuoke Kelvin Abuchi, Mfon Fintan Bassey and Omotola Kazeem Dauda, Drug 
Policy and Control in Nigeria…p119 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                                  Abubakar Ishaq 
308 
 
because of the growing role of Nigerians in exacerbating the drug 
problem in the U.S.15 The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency 
(NDLEA) is therefore described as an organisation backed up by and 
vested with the responsibility to ensure that drugs that are considered 
harmful are destroyed and offenders caught in the act of selling such 
drugs or bringing it illegally to the country are greatly punished. This 
was the first that Nigeria saw the establishment of an agency that is 
mainly concerned with the fight against drug abuse and trafficking in 
the nation.16 
The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) has been defined 
as a Federal agency in Nigeria charged with the responsibility of 
eliminating the growing, processing, manufacturing, selling, exporting, 
and trafficking of hard drugs. Among many of its provisions, the NDLEA 
decree set up an agency of the same name and listed the punishment 
for drug offences, including the forfeiture of assets of arrested persons. 
In this Decree, trafficking in cocaine, heroin, or similar drugs is 
punishable by life imprisonment, while possession or use attracts a 
sentence of ‘15 years but not exceeding 25 years’. Since the agency was 
established, it has put in spirited efforts in the enforcement of laws on 
drug trafficking and abuse.17  To this effect, so many persons have been 
prosecuted, and sent to prison with varying jail terms, consignments of 
drugs and substances confirmed to be prohibited or counterfeits worth 
billions of naira are destroyed from time to time, and articles, vehicles 
and vessels used by drug law breakers are confiscated by the agency. 
 
 
                                                           15Ifeoma P. Okafor, Causes and Consequences of Drug Abuse among Youth in 
Kwara State, Nigeria, Canadian Journal of Family and Youth, 12(1), 2020,p4 16Easeofdoingbusinessnigeria.com, National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, 
assessed March 20, 2021, Easeofdoingbusinessnigeria.com/mdas/ National-Drug-
Law-Enforcement-Agency/ 17Ugwuoke Kelvin Abuchi, MfonFintanBassey and OmotolaKazeemDauda, Drug 
Policy and Control in Nigeria… 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the Campaign for a Drug Free Society in Partnership... 
309 
 
NYSC Partnership with NDLEA an Overview  
Drug abuse is one of the health-related problems among Nigerian youth 
and has been a source of concern to national stakeholders. Drug abuse 
among Nigerian youth has been a scourge to the overall sustainable 
development of the nation. It is also a major public health, social and 
individual problem and is seen as an aggravating factor for economic 
crises; hence, for Nigeria’s poverty status. While youth are supposed to 
be the major agent of change and development, some of them have 
been destroyed by drug abuse thereby rendering them unproductive. 
The continuous rise in youth engagement and addiction to drug abuse 
has raised a serious alarm to the fate of Nigeria’s future and social 
development.  
The federal government charged NDLEA to device a new means of 
addressing the consistent youth engagement in drug hence the idea of 
collaboration and partnership with relevant agencies and organisation. 
However, this partnership becomes more effective with the National 
Youth Service Corps for it nature of being a youth base scheme that 
interact with communities and people at all level of society division. 
The NYSC since it partnership with NDLEA has been playing significant 
role in controlling drug abuse among youth and the general Nigerian 
society through establishment of campaigns clubs, programmes and 
rehabilitation training in schools and public centres.  
The National Youths Service Corps Scheme was established by the 
Federal Military Government of Nigeria in 1973. The scheme provides 
that graduates who are not above the age of thirty (30) are deployed to 
states other than their states of origin to undertake one (1) year 
compulsory national service. The certificate obtainable after the service 
qualifies the graduate to seek employment in the public or private 
sector. Some of the goal of establishing the scheme is to create a better 
understanding and appreciation of religious and ethnical differences 
among the youths, and to unify the country. This is to be achieved 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                                  Abubakar Ishaq 
310 
 
through developing common ties and friendship, cultivating the spirit 
of team work and engaging in frank dialogue.18 
Immediately it was established, the NYSC became an operational 
vehicle for harnessing and showcasing the collective capabilities of 
Nigerian youths for Nigeria’s national integration and development 
drive through its youth deployment strategy into key sectors of the 
economy and social life. Part of the major objectives of the scheme 
include: inculcating discipline in Nigerian youths by integrating in them 
a tradition of industry at work and of patriotic and loyal service to the 
Nation in any situation they may find themselves; raising the moral 
tone of our youths by giving them the opportunity to learn about higher 
ideals of national achievement and social and cultural improvement; to 
develop in our youths attitudes of mind, acquired through shared 
experience and suitable training, which will make them more amenable 
to mobilization in the national interest. NYSC introduces the 
Community Development Service (CDS) programme as a tool towards 
achieving its objectives.19 
The Community Development Service (CDS) programme is one of the 
cardinal programmes of the NYSC scheme. It is through the CDS 
programme that the corps members of NYSC undertake developmental 
activities during their one year of national service to improve their host 
communities in one way or the other. It is one of the requirements of 
the Nigerian youths to participate in Community Development Service 
                                                           18Amaka, John Ifeanyichukwu and Nor, Apine, The Problems and Negative Effects 
of the Use of National Youths Service Corp (NYSC) Members as Ad-hoc Teaching 
Staff in Nigeria: A Case Study of Kalgo Local Government Area of Kebbi State, IOSR 
Journal of Research & Method in Education, Volume 4, Issue 6 Ver. I 2014, P-2 19Akinwamide T.K, Harnessing the Language Diversity through the National Youth 
Service Corps (NYSC) Programme in Multilingual Nigeria: Synergising our 
Separation, International Journal of Humanities Social Sciences and Education 
(IJHSSE) Volume 6, Issue 1, 2019, P76 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the Campaign for a Drug Free Society in Partnership... 
311 
 
as part of their contribution to developing the country. The CDS 
programme of the NYSC Scheme is classified into individual, 
collaborative as well as group CDS, the group CDS is also categorized 
into numerous groups base on social aspect of human life such as Corps 
Legal Aid Group, Education Development Group (Mass Literacy, Adult 
Education, Extra Murals ICT), Environmental Protection and Sanitation 
Group, Road Safety Group, Reproductive Health & HIV/AIDS Group, 
Anti-Corruption Group, MDGs, Medical and Health Services Group, 
Drug-Free and Quality Control Group, Agro-Allied Group, Charity 
Services and Gender Group as well as Disaster Management Group. The 
scheme partners with National and Non-Governmental organizations 
and other establishments to implement development programmes.20 
The Drug-free and quality control group is one of the major important 
CDS group that is receiving high priority from NYSC, government and 
its agencies. This group has for long being serving as a mechanism for 
carrying out sensitization and campaign on drug abuse which is 
becoming a rampant attitude among youth especially students. To 
strength and guide the activities of this group, NYSC established a 
strong partnership with NDLEA for the purpose of training and 
execution of drug free campaigns.  
The establishment of partnership between NYSC and NDLEA was a 
later development that reached NYSC in recent years. Following the 
threat of continuous rise in the number children and youth engagement 
to drug abuse and among women, the NDLEA saw NYSC as an 
important tool for running awareness campaign as members of the 
Corps are youth in themselves and are largely deployed to schools and 
centers which are the hub area of children and youth gathering. With 
the initiation of the partnership and continuous training of Corps 
members, the NYSC-NDLEA, partnership has recorded a lot of 
                                                           20NYSC, ABC of Community Development Service, (Nigeria: NYSC, 2014), P-1 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                                  Abubakar Ishaq 
312 
 
significant achievements. Such achievements could be seen through the 
NYSC introduction and running of drug free campaign clubs in schools 
across the nation which has a greater effect, there is also frequent 
conduct of drug education and rehabilitation training and counselling 
to drug addicts as well as sensitization in public places and drug free 
road walk. Through this programmes and others, NYSC has done well in 
limiting drug abuse and revolutionizing the work of NDLEA.  
 
NYSC-NDLEA Campaign and Sensitization for a Drug Free Society  
As earlier discussed, the National Youth Service Corps, being an apex 
body charged with promoting national integration and moral discipline 
has in recent years took steps toward eradication of drug abuse in 
Nigeria. This new development was a response to the rapidly-growing 
epidemic of substance abuse in the country and the damages it is 
causing to the upcoming youth generation, with the new development, 
NYSC therefore begun playing a vital role in the fight against drug abuse 
in Nigeria through various activities and initiatives. Most notable has 
been the partnership with the National Drugs Law Enforcement Agency 
(NDLEA) for training of Corps members and sensitization as well as 
formation of clubs on drug-free society project.   
One of the most important and key area of NYSC drug-free campaign is 
schools. NYSC initiated the formation and maintenance of drug-free 
clubs which is a school-based programme aimed at informing children 
on the dangers of drug abuse; and parents on the signs to look out for; 
as well as rendering help to those already on drugs. With the prevalence 
of cannabis use amongst pupils being as high as 21.2% in some parts of 
the country, it is imperative that these children be given the necessary 
information that equips them to be able to say no to drug use.21 Through 
this club, Corps members conduct awareness lectures, sensitization 
                                                           21Ogunsola Samuel and Fajemisin EA, Experiences and projections for Drug 
Abuse…p3 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the Campaign for a Drug Free Society in Partnership... 
313 
 
campaign and drug use counselling to students. The Corps members 
also organize drama and debate competitions among schools that 
enlighten students and parent on what is drug abuse and its dangers to 
human health and community development. According to Kabir: 
“The engagement of NYSC in drug campaign led to the 
realisation of vital change in students’ risk of joining 
drug abuse cult in this school and even others within 
our community. It was the Corps Members that 
introduced Drug-free club to the school. Prior to this 
establishment, drug abuse was very rampant among 
our students even within school premises despite 
several effort to address it. However, with the drug free 
club, the school witness drastic fall in drug abuse as the 
Corps members brought about quite a number of 
activities that brought it down. One of these activities 
was the weekly free drug campaign session under 
which they carried out awareness lectures and 
sometimes staging a drama that point out the dangers 
of being a drug addict. They also set up drug vanguard 
unit which comprised of senior students, staff and the 
Corps members themselves under the supervision of 
the Vice principal. This vanguard unit carried out 
inspection and search operation to detect and discipline 
drunkards within the school and in the case of students 
who proved stubborn and refused to stop taking drugs 
despite all effort to rehabilitate them, the unit 
recommends such students be expelled as their 
presence might lead to others falling victims of drug 
abuse. With this and many other activities of the NYSC, 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                                  Abubakar Ishaq 
314 
 
drug abuse has been brought down to a minimum level 
which we are very happy with.”22 
 
The efforts of NYSC in controlling drug abuse in Nigerian schools remain 
the same everywhere as in the above submission though the approach 
differs in some school which is guided by the level of intensity of drug 
abuse in the schools. Report from Government College Funtua shows 
that the activities of Corps Members on drugs and the introduction of 
Drug-free club has contributed immensely in controlling drug abuse 
within the school and the community at large. Through the club, NYSC 
organises lectures and competitions aimed at pointing out the dangers 
of drug abuse. In organising the lectures, the Corps members sometimes 
invite the National Drugs Law Enforcement Agency to take part in the 
awareness lectures.23 
Being a professional agency of drug control, the NDLEA in a number of 
time use projector to show documentary videos of how drug abuse 
affects human health and causes early death in many cases. The Corps 
members also carry out sensitization tours with the students to a 
number of public places such as Motor Park, markets and schools to 
engage their fellow students in open drug discussion. The Corps 
members sometimes organise annual drug campaign day in this school 
in which both students and staff wear customized shirts with drug 
campaign slogans on them. The major activity on such day is usually a 
brief lecture after which we all move out for a road walk with some of 
them carrying placard and beating drums to call the attention of people 
to know the motive behind the walk. The Corps members also print 
                                                           22MalamKabirSa’idu, 41, Teacher (Head of Administration GDSS Makera), 
Government Day Secondary School Makera, 15th February, 2021 23Mohammed Rabi’uAbdulwahab, 48, Teacher (Senior Master Admin, GCPF), 
Government College Pilot Funtua, 16th February, 2021 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the Campaign for a Drug Free Society in Partnership... 
315 
 
drug campaign flyers and distributes to people in the course of the road 
walk.24 
In another effort, NYSC collaborated with Pharmaceutical Society of 
Nigeria (PSN) to carry out a project termed as Teenagers Against Drug 
Abuse. The teenagers against drug abuse project is focused on 
empowering young people that will stand in as advocates of substance 
abuse in their respective communities. The project was targeted to 
reach out to teenagers and sensitize them on the facts about substance 
abuse.25 The World Health Organization reported that 9 out of 10 drug 
abusers had contact with it when they were teenagers. In Nigeria, most 
of the children above age 6 already know about marijuana, cigarette 
and alcohol and this is caused by what they see on media, what their 
parent do and what is happening in the communities.26 The project was 
carried out in secondary schools in Lagos State under the NYSC Drug-
Free and Quality Control Group. The team was able to visit about 30 
schools in the state, distribute free materials such as booklets and 
videos from Drug Free World to them and create Drug Abuse Clubs 
where the teenagers can carry out their advocacy roles. The team visits 
the schools weekly to check the effectiveness of the clubs and address 
issues that are related to substance use amidst the students.27 
Report from Vanguard states that Corps members of the National Youth 
Service Corps has staged out a sensitization programme against drug to 
secondary school students in Taraba State capital Jalingo. The Corps 
members noted that the sensitization was to disabuse the minds of 
                                                           24Mohammed Rabi’uAbdulwahab, 48, Teacher (Senior Master Admin, GCPF)… 25Ogunsola Samuel and Fajemisin EA, Experiences and projections for Drug 
Abuse…p12 26HamisuMamman, Ahmad Tajuddin Othman and Lim HooiLian, Adolescent’s and 
Drugs Abuse in Nigeria, Journal of Biology, Agriculture and Healthcare Vol.4, No.1, 
2014 ISSN 2224-3208 (Paper) ISSN 2225-093X (Online) 27Ogunsola Samuel and Fajemisin EA, Experiences and projections for Drug 
Abuse… 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                                  Abubakar Ishaq 
316 
 
students against substance abuse and to push for full attainment of 
sustainable Development Goal 3, which seeks to ensure healthy lives 
and promote wellbeing for all at all ages through the students who are 
domiciled in different communities. The mission was that, by 
sensitizing and educating the students on the effect of drug and 
substance abuse, they will in-turn educate their peers and other 
members of their various communities which will help curtail the 
prevalence of drug use among the youths.28 
Apart from school-based drug education and sensitization programme, 
the National Youth Service Corps has been making efforts in extending 
drug campaign to key areas of the communities across the nation 
through community outreach and street conferences. The community 
outreach programme involves organizing public lectures at both rural 
and urban areas to enlighten the community members with what 
constitutes drug abuse and its dangers to mental health, while the 
street conference awareness involved going to strategic places where 
young people gather to take substances, market square and parks. The 
team engage them without stigmatization and share fliers containing 
facts on drug abuse with them.  
President of the NYSC Drug Free CDS group in Katsina Local 
Government reported that they conducted drug free sensitization 
program in public areas within Katsina metropolis. The Corps members 
who were part of the NYSC 2019 batch A members state that: 
“We Members of the NYSC drug free CDS group in 
collaboration with the Tobacco Free Nigeria, staged 
two different sensitization Walk against Tobacco Use 
within Katsina city. During the walk we enlightened the 
                                                           28Vanguard.com, Corps Members Take Campaign Against Drug Abuse in Taraba 
Secondary Schools, assessed March 20, 2021. 
https://www.vanguardngr.com/2019/06/sdg3-corps-members-take-campaign-
against-drug-abuse-to-taraba-secondary-schools/ 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the Campaign for a Drug Free Society in Partnership... 
317 
 
general public on the dangers drugs and substance 
abuse especially the use of tobacco and the different 
forms of threat it poses on the human health, using 
infographic materials as well as one-on-one 
enlightenment. The first walk which took place on April 
16th 2019, was staged between Kofar Kwaya Round-
about and the popular Narto Car Park, where our 
members addressed both the transporters and 
passengers on the dangers of Cigarettes, Shisha, 
Marijuana in addition to other drugs of abuse. The 
second walk was on 27th August, 2019 and it started 
from the Pedestrian bridge at the Central market to the 
NDLEA Office, Katsina State. This time we moved 
singing with our voices (We are dauntless! We are 
unrelenting! We'd go all out till our voices are heard 
and our words acted upon.), placards raise up in our 
hands, and with the NYSC band group supporting us 
with their beat and dances, we passed our message 
across.”29 
Another report from Vanguard has it that, NYSC and alongside National 
Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) and 
NDLEA have jointly took to the street of Cappa in Oshedi area of Lagos 
state for a campaign against drug abuse. The road drug-free campaign 
was centered on commercial bus drivers and motorcycle operators in 
the area.  While addressing the drivers, motorcycle operators and other 
people operating businesses around the park, the Director General of 
NAFDAC and leader of the campaign team, Dr. Paul Orhii called on 
unions and corporate bodies of the commercial operators to join the 
war against drug abuse and make possible effort to ensure the 
eradication of drug abuse as well as ensuring that the use of Narcotic 
                                                           29Facebook.com, NYSC drug-free katsina, towards a Tobacco Free Nigeria, 30th 
August , 2019, assessed March 20, 2021 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                                  Abubakar Ishaq 
318 
 
drugs and psychotropic substances are limited to medical and scientific 
purpose only. He further stated that finding has revealed that the sale 
and use of cannabis, alcohol and alcohol based herbal mixtures is a 
common occurrence at the nation’s motor park. 
He regretted that most commercial bus drivers and motorcycle 
operators often smoke cannabis and/or drink alcohol and alcohol 
based herbal mixtures before embarking on their journey to energise 
them and also keep them awake for a long time. He pointed out that 
such practices leads to impaired mental function such that the ability of 
the user to make accurate judgment, especially when driving is affected 
which in many cases lead to accidents and resulting serious injury and 
possibly death. The NYSC drug-free and quality control president 
explained that substance abuse affects individuals, society, economy 
and families, and that the problem is better imagined than experienced. 
They therefore collectively enjoined the commercial vehicle operators 
to shun drug abuse for the safety of their, family and the society at 
large.30 
However, NYSC has record of many other campaigns that are in same 
nature as those earlier discussed in different communities throughout 
the nation. In addition to the school-based, community outreach and 
road stage campaign programmes, members of the NYSC drug-free and 
quality control CDS groups also launched awareness campaigns 
through the use of media more especially radio stations, television 
channels and social media handles such as Facebook, Instagram and 
Twitter. Each state Secretariat of the NYSC has its own handles through 
which it promotes drug campaign online and post its activities to 
motivate the Nigerian society. Gigane states that; 
                                                           30Vanguard.com, NAFDAC and NYSC take campaign on drug abuse to commercial 
operators in Oshodi area, assessed March 18, 2021 
https://www.vanguardngr.com/2019/09/drug-abuse-nafdac-nysc-take-campaign-
to-oshodi-motor-park/ 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the Campaign for a Drug Free Society in Partnership... 
319 
 
During our time as organisers and leaders of the NYSC 
drug-free and quality control CDS group in Kano State, 
we conducted a lot of campaign and lectures on what 
constitutes drug abuse and the dangers it poses on 
human health and social development. Most of the 
campaign we held in schools, public centers and 
through road stage campaign. However, after realizing 
that citizens of Kano are so much attached to listening, 
centration and participating in programmes on radio 
stations and T.V channels, we expanded our drug- free 
sensitization campaign plan to include staging 
programme on radio station. We were able to achieve 
this by holding live radio sensitization through 
collaboration with the Kano State Command of the 
NDLEA and NAFDAC respectively. The programme was 
held in four different occasions between November 
2018 and June 2019.31 
 
Challenges of Drug-Free Sensitization Campaign  
The NYSC sensitization campaign for a drug- free society despite its 
recorded success has been plague by a number of difficulties and 
challenges which limit the intensity and generosity of the campaign. 
One of the challenges faced by the sensitization campaigners could be 
seen in the area of the language barrier. English has been considered as 
a national language in Nigeria and also as the language in education. 
However the fall in the standard of education and the wider range of 
illiteracy couple with the NYSC strategy of deploying Corps Members to 
communities other than their indigenous state has led to emergence of 
communication barrier between the campaigners and the community 
people they stand to address as most of the Corps members could not 
                                                           31Usaman Yusuf Gigane, 30, Ex-President NYSC Drug-free and Quality Control CDS 
group, Kano State 2019,Janbulo quarters Kano 19th February, 2021 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                                  Abubakar Ishaq 
320 
 
speak the language of their host community.32 This forces the campaign 
teams to employ the services of interpreters but this has its own short 
fall like limiting the detail of messages to be passed and in some cases 
the interpreter does not necessarily send the proper messages across  
Another challenge that hinders the sensitization campaign is the issue 
time inadequacy especially while sensitizing school pupils. Normally 
schools are pre-designed with periods of lessons and school 
management make little effort designing a sufficient time that allows 
comprehensive discussion. In most of the time, corps members were 
given break hours or Fridays during sports to pass across whatever 
message they may have. This usually discourages the students whose 
thoughts hare been stimulated to play in such time thereby rendering 
the Corps members efforts minimal.33 
 
Lack of affordable rehabilitation centers is another challenge to 
the campaign. Despite the fact that substance misuse is a major issue 
that influences numerous Nigerians, there are still not many 
rehabilitation centers in the country that will aid the Corps member to 
extend the campaign in far rural areas. Nigeria needs appropriate 
clinical recovery centers for those experiencing alcohol and medication 
misuse.  
The financial aspect of the execution of the projects is usually an issue 
of concern. The basic source of fund for the campaign is NYSC grant on 
CDS project, support from the host community which is very difficult 
due to lack of interest on the project and also support from Drug 
control agencies and Non-governmental organisations who only come 
in when they deem fit to. The funds usually raised are not sufficient 
enough to effectively scale the project to all levels of the society thereby 
                                                           32Akinwamide T.K, Harnessing the Language Diversity through the National Youth 
Service Corps (NYSC)… p78 33Usaman Yusuf Gigane, 30, Ex-President NYSC Drug-free and Quality Control… 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the Campaign for a Drug Free Society in Partnership... 
321 
 
restricting the campaign to only selected areas leaving majority of the 
society untouched by the project. The issue of fund raising has reached 
the stage that in some instances corps members had to tax themselves 
to be able to buy some writing materials for the pupils in the case of 
schools sensitization campaigns.  
Proximity is another challenge faced by the corps members in carrying 
out sensitization campaigns. In most cases, corps members experience 
difficulties in conveying themselves deep into the rural areas. Unlike in 
the case of some very few groups that used to provide mobility to the 
corps members, the majority allowed the burden on the campaigners 
which indirectly weaken the morale of the Corps members to do more 
on the campaign.34 
 
Conclusion  
It is worthwhile mentioning that since inception of the National Youth 
Service Corps Drugs-Free and Quality control campaign group and its 
active participation in the war against drug abuse, there has been a 
revolutionary change in Nigeria’s effort of ensuring drug-free society. 
The NYSC Scheme in this respect, by lunching the campaign for a drug-
free society and collaborating with the National Drug Law Enforcement 
agency, placing it as an important vanguard for the campaign which is 
carried out by the corps members can be said to have served its 
purpose. This partnership has yielded a greater impact as it leads to the 
training of Corps members on drug education and campaign with 
which they stage their own campaign in their host community. In 
recent times, the scheme has been in the vanguard of the nation’s drive 
in controlling drug abuse in our rural-urban development through the 
various community and school-based awareness campaign executed by 
corps members most of which are through schools, road and media 
stations.  
                                                           34Usaman Yusuf Gigane, 30, Ex-President NYSC Drug-free and Quality Control… 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                                  Abubakar Ishaq 
322 
 
The impact of this campaign can never under estimated, it has 
succeeded in establishing drug-free clubs in schools throughout the 
nation which oversees the training of students on how to extend the 
campaign that later resulted in the emergence of many students 
becoming advocates who stand against drug abuse in their various 
communities. The campaign has also led to the emergence of students’ 
based anti-drug vanguard groups in schools that ensure the eradication 
of drug abuse in the schools. Through its road and media station 
Campaign, the general public are informed on what constitute drug 
abuse and the dangers it poses on user’s health, family and the nation 
at large.  
However, the campaign was never without challenges affecting the 
scale and nature of its execution. Part of the challenges as discussed in 
the paper includes the problem of language barrier, time inadequacy, 
lack of affordable rehabilitation centers, financial inadequacy as well as 
lack of support and cooperation of the community. In the light of this, 
the study therefore recommends that, to effectively fight and eradicate 
drug abuse, government needs to device a means of educating family 
units on drugs, establishment of counseling centers for drug control, 
designing curricula on drug education to guide and support the clubs 
established in schools by NYSC corps members, establishment of drug 
rehabilitation centers that will aid the Campaigners to contribute more, 
establishment of drug awareness units at all level of the society. These 
in all put together will increase the speed of the campaign and reduce 
the hardship attached to organizing and execution of campaigns.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the Campaign for a Drug Free Society in Partnership... 
323 
 
Bibliography  
 
Amaka, John Ifeanyichukwu and Nor, Apine, The Problems and 
Negative Effects of the Use of National Youths Service Corp 
(NYSC) Members as Ad-hoc Teaching Staff in Nigeria: A Case 
Study of Kalgo Local Government Area of Kebbi State, IOSR 
Journal of Research & Method in Education, Volume 4, Issue 6 Ver. 
I 2014, P-2 
Akinwamide T.K, Harnessing the Language Diversity through the 
National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Programme in 
Multilingual Nigeria: Synergising our Separation, International 
Journal of Humanities Social Sciences and Education (IJHSSE) 
Volume 6, Issue 1, 2019, PP 75-80 
Easeofdoingbusinessnigeria.com, National Drug Law Enforcement 
Agency, assessed March 20, 2021, Easeofdoingbusiness 
nigeria.com/mdas/ National-Drug-Law-Enforcement-Agency/ 
Facebook.com, NYSC drug-free katsina, towards a Tobacco Free 
Nigeria, 30thAugust , 2019, assessed March 20, 2021 
Gateway foundation.org, effect of drug abuse and addiction, assessed 
on 15th march 2021. https://www.gatewayfoundation.org 
/faqs/effects-of-drug-abuse/ 
Hamisu Mamman, Ahmad Tajuddin Othman and Lim Hooi Lian, 
Adolescent’s and Drugs Abuse in Nigeria, Journal of Biology, 
Agriculture and Healthcare Vol.4, No.1, 2014 ISSN 2224-3208 
(Paper) ISSN 2225-093X (Online) 
Hauwa’uAbdullahi, The Impact of Drug on Student’s Academic 
Performance: A case Study of Faculty Of Social and Management 
Sciences, Umaru Musa Yar’adua University Katsina, 2016, p12 
Ifeoma P. Okafor, Causes and Consequences of Drug Abuse among 
Youth in Kwara State, Nigeria, Canadian Journal of Family and 
Youth, 12(1), University of Alberta, 2020 , pp.147-162 
http://ejournals,library,ualberta.ca/index/php/cjfy 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                                  Abubakar Ishaq 
324 
 
Malam Kabir Sa’idu, 41, Teacher (Head of Administration GDSS 
Makera), Government Day Secondary School Makera, 15th 
February, 2021 
Mohammed Rabi’u Abdulwahab, 48, Teacher (Senior Master Admin, 
GCPF), Government College Pilot Funtua, 16th February, 2021  
NYSC, ABC of Community Development Service, (Nigeria: NYSC, 2014) 
Ogunsola Samuel and Fajemis in EA,  Experiences and projections for 
Drug Abuse Sensitization and Eradication among youths in 
South West, Nigeria. Journal of Alcoholism Drug Abuse & 
Substance Dependence vol.6: 018, 2020 
Sussman, Steve, and Susan L. Ames. “Concepts of Drugs, Drug Use, 
Misuse, and Abuse.” Chapter. In Drug Abuse: Concepts, 
Prevention, and Cessation, Cambridge Studies on Child and 
Adolescent Health, (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 
2008) Pp3–17. 
Ugwuoke Kelvin Abuchi, Mfon Fintan Bassey and Omotola Kazeem 
Dauda, Drug Policy and Control in Nigeria: The Role of the 
National Drugs Law Enforcement Agency, Novel Approaches in 
Drug Designing & Development, vol. 4, issue 5, 2019, Pp118-121 
Usaman Yusuf Gigane, 30, Ex-President NYSC Drug-free and Quality 
Control CDS group, Kano State 2019, Janbulo quarters Kano 19th 
February, 2021 
Vanguard.com, Corps Members Take Campaign Against Drug Abuse in 
Taraba Secondary Schools, assessed March 20, 2021. 
https://www.vanguardngr.com/2019/06/sdg3-corps-
members-take-campaign-against-drug-abuse-to-taraba-
secondary-schools/ 
Vanguard.com, nafdac and NYSC take campaign on drug abuse to 
commercial operators in Oshodi area, assessed March 18, 2021 
https://www.vanguardngr.com/2019/09/drug-abuse-nafdac-
nysc-take-campaign-to-oshodi-motor-park/ 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
325 
 
 11 1177 77    
    Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim:  
An Overview of His Achievements as 18th 
NYSC Director-General 
 
 
Bem Japhet Audu 
and 
Maryam Hamza 
 
 
Introduction 
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) has attained tremendous 
height since the assumption of office by Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim as 
the Director General (DG) of the Scheme. This is not surprising, given 
the fact that Gen Ibrahim is a thoroughbred military administrator, who 
combines scholarship, emotional intelligence and finesse in his 
administrative duties. His experiences cut across administration in the 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                  Bem J. Audu and M. Hamza  
326 
 
military and civil establishments, which combination have accelerated 
the pace of the modest service rendered to the NYSC.  
Key issues that confronted the Scheme upon his assumption of office 
include the need to sustain the relevance of the NYSC in a fast-changing 
world; second, inadequate motivation and welfare for Corps Members 
and staff of the Scheme. The third was the challenge of unemployment 
among the youths after the mandatory one year national service. 
Gen Ibrahim’s track record as a visionary leader readily came to play in 
tackling these challenges. He initiated a five-point policy thrust to 
address them. These five-point policy thrust include the following:  
 
/xrhombus Sustain effective utilisation of the potentials of Corps Members 
for optimal benefit;  
/xrhombus Strengthen existing collaborations with critical stakeholders; 
/xrhombus Improve on the welfare and security of Corps Members and 
staff; 
/xrhombus Pursue a technologically driven organisation to deepen 
effective service delivery;  
/xrhombus Reinvigorate the NYSC Ventures and SAED in line with the NYSC 
Act for greater impact. 
 
It is against this backdrop that this essay examines the achievements of 
Gen Ibrahim as Director General of the NYSC, using a descriptive 
approach and evidence -- based study. The paper argues that Gen 
Ibrahim has not only transformed the NYSC, but has also repositioned it 
to benefit the Corps Members, members of staff and indeed, the nation 
at large.  
The assumption here is that leadership is a process of galvanising 
resources to attain group goals. Gen Ibrahim’s leadership style has led 
to the transformation of the NYSC by strengthening the institution, in 
terms of welfare, security, innovations and technological advancement. 
Despite these laudable achievements, there have equally been 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
327 
 
challenges. The Corona Virus (COVID-19) pandemic threatened to 
derail the activities of the Scheme. As an astute administrator, he rose 
to the occasion through a robust coordinated response to manage the 
pandemic that has become a reference point and template for other 
establishments in the country. 
 
Towards a Biography of General Ibrahim: Trends in his Academic, 
Military and Administrative Career 
Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim (Associate Professor), was born on the 13th 
July, 1967 and hails from Nasarawa Local Government Area of 
Nasarawa State. He attended the famous University of Jos where he 
obtained Bachelor's and Master's Degrees in History (1989 and 1992 
respectively), before proceeding to bag a Post-Graduate Diploma in 
Education from Tai Solar in University of Education, Ijebu Ode, Ogun 
State. Driven by his tenacity to acquire knowledge, he went on to obtain 
a Ph.D in History from the University of Abuja in 2007. 
Since his commissioning into the Nigerian Army, he has served in 
various capacities in military formations across the country. His 
appointments and postings include: The Institute of Army Education 
(Research Officer). Researched and produced Nigerian Army Journals 
and Briefs for the Nigerian Army in particular, and the Military in 
general; NYSC (Military Assistant to the Director General) 1997-1999; 
Nigerian Defence Academy (Taught 100 and 200 Levels 2000-2004; 
National Defence College (Staff Officer I Military History 2004-2009; 
Headquarters Nigerian Army School of Education (Senior Instructor) 
2009-2011; Commandant Command Secondary School, Suleja 2012-
2014; Nigerian Defence Academy (Head of Department, History and 
War Studies), 2015-2018; and Registrar, Nigerian Army University, Biu, 
Borno State(2018-2019). 
Brigadier General S Ibrahim is a scholar of high repute, who authored, 
co-authored, edited, co-edited and contributed articles/chapters to 
numerous books and academic Journals.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                  Bem J. Audu and M. Hamza  
328 
 
Despite his tight schedule, Brig Gen S Ibrahim still devotes time to 
academic work, including the supervision of students' thesis and 
dissertations, serving as Internal and External Examiner of Master’s 
Students at the Ahmadu Bello University Zaria and the Nigerian 
Defence Academy, Kaduna.  
Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim was appointed 18th Director General of the 
National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), and assumed the leadership of 
the Corps on 10th May, 2019.This ushered in a transformation era for 
the Scheme which has not only been a source of immense benefit to the 
Service Corps, but the entire country in general.  
The General also had a cluster of completed courses in the military, and 
excelled in these courses.  Brig Gen Ibrahim is an Associate Professor in 
the Department of History and War Studies, Nigeria Defence Academy, 
Kaduna. These feats in both military and academic trainings, as well as 
experience in service are what marked him out as a visionary, seasoned 
and ingenious administrator.  
Since assumption of duty as the Director General of the NYSC, the 
media has been awash with bourgeoning records of his strides. His 
vision for the Scheme informed his decision to roll out a five-point 
policy thrust, geared towards utilising the potentials of the Corps 
Members maximally.  Since assumption of duty at the NYSC, his 
pragmatic leadership skill has set the Scheme on the path of 
rejuvenation and continuous relevance. Like his predecessors, he came 
up with robust and ambitious programmes, aimed at repositioning the 
Scheme as a self-sufficient and revenue -- generating government 
organisation. 
This chapter will attempt an appraisal of the delivery of these specific 
goals by the administration of Gen S Ibrahim within a short period of 
two years, in spite of the huge challenges facing the Scheme. 
Sustain effective utilisation of the potentials of Corps Members for 
optimal benefit. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
329 
 
The successful conduct of the 2019 NYSC Sports and Cultural Festivals 
is a remarkable achievement of the Director General in harnessing the 
huge potentials of the Corps Members for national development. The 
NYSC Sports and Cultural Festivals serve as one of the veritable 
avenues through which the Scheme promotes national unity, cultural 
integration, as well as showcasing the abundant talents of Corps 
Members in the areas of sports and culture for gainful employment in 
the sports and film industries. The Festivals were revived by the 
present management. The grand finale was held in Abuja. Not only that, 
measures were put in place to ensure that the event holds annually. 
Another success of the NYSC Director General is the production of an 
NYSC movie titled "A Call to Service" currently undergoing post 
production work. Apart from its entertainment value, the movie is 
being packaged to create public awareness on the roles of stakeholders 
to the Scheme. These stakeholders include the three tiers of 
government, Corps employers, as well as serving and prospective Corps 
Members. Ultimately, the film will promote better understanding of the 
Scheme to the public, in addition to sensitising them on their expected 
roles to the Scheme. 
Another noteworthy achievement of the Director General is the 
establishment of NYSC National Cultural Troupe. This initiative is to 
provide a veritable platform for Corps Members to develop their 
talents in drama and cultural dance, while also eliciting public support 
towards harnessing such talents through private and corporate 
patronage. Remarkably, the NYSC Cultural Troupe will also shore up 
the revenue base of the Scheme through its activities which will be 
commercialised.  
In the same vein, the NYSC Director General has successfully organised 
a National Anti-Corruption Walk. This is in furtherance of the NYSC's 
contributions to the fight against corruption through the activities of 
the Corps Anti-Corruption and Integrity CDS Group. The programme 
involved the participation of thousands of Corps Members in the first 
ever nationwide rally/road walk organised by the Economic and 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                  Bem J. Audu and M. Hamza  
330 
 
Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), in conjunction with the Federal 
Ministry of Youth and Sports Development on 14th February, 2020. 
The Director-General personally joined the Corps Members and 
officials in Kano State for the rally, which was tagged “Nigerian Youths 
March Against Corruption.”  
This action further boosted the commitment of the NYSC in eradicating 
corruption and promotion of good moral and ethical values in the 
country. 
The outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic nearly crippled the global 
socio-economic activities and did not spare the Scheme. The 2020 
Batch “A” Orientation Course was suspended barely eight days into the 
programme. However, the ever resourceful and proactive Director 
General challenged the creative ingenuity of Corps Members who 
responded appropriately to the challenge by producing non-
pharmaceutical intervention materials such as face-mask, liquid soap, 
alcohol - based hand sanitiser and donated same to the indigent 
populace across the length and breadth of the country. 
Under the leadership of Gen Ibrahim, the NYSC has also carried out 
public awareness campaigns on containment measures for the dreaded 
virus. The initiative of the Director General was later adopted by some  
public institutions. 
Another innovative contribution of the NYSC in the fight against COVID-
19 pandemic is the fabrication of foot-operated water, liquid soap and 
hand sanitizer dispenser by individual Corps Members in several 
States.  
For instance,  Babatunde Dolapo Dayo and Sebe Godspower - Abia 
State; Abdullahi Sani - Kano; Abdulsalam Abubakar and Obiefuna 
Ebuka - Kwara; Adeyanju Adeyemi, Afolabi Victor, Ogunmoye Victor - 
Oyo and Onyekwere Chiwotaoke – Zamfara and Ilori Deborah - FCT 
were among the Corps Members that fabricated and donated the 
devices. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
331 
 
In addition, Corps Members, acting on the platform of Charity 
CDS/SDGs Group, have been contributing towards mitigating the effects 
of the COVID-19 at the grassroots, through the donation of food and 
other relief items to State and Local Governments, as well as indigent 
members of the society. These strategies by the Director General paved 
the way for the Scheme to obtain approval from the National Centre for 
Disease Control (NCDC) to resume full operations, especially the 
Orientation Course. 
Relatedly, several Corps Members on teaching assignment also 
contributed towards sustaining the educational progress of their 
students by adopting virtual teaching approach while schools remained 
closed as a result of the pandemic.  
As per the pursuit of a technologically-driven organisation to deepen 
effective service delivery, the Director-General recently conducted the 
first ever video conference with the 2021 Batch ‘A’ Stream 1 Corps 
Members in all the 37 Orientation Camps. It was an avenue to interface 
with thousands of Corps Members simultaneously, in line with COVID-
19 safety protocols. He has sustained this initiative by periodically 
holding virtual meetings with serving Corps Members, as well as NYSC 
State Coordinators across the country. 
It is gratifying to disclose that the Director General's interface with 
National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) has 
ensured the equipping of the NYSC Rivers Secretariat with computers 
by the agency. That singular gesture has in no small measure deepened 
the proficiency of Corps Members and staff members in the area of 
Information technology. 
The Chief Executive introduced the inscription of date of birth on the 
Certificate of National Service and Exclusion Letter, beginning with the 
2019 Batch “A” Corps Members and 2019 Batch “C” respectively. This is 
in a bid to check the manipulation of date of birth by ineligible persons 
seeking mobilisation for National Service, and it has had a positive 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                  Bem J. Audu and M. Hamza  
332 
 
effect in checkmating the falsification of records for employment, visa, 
political appointments, among others. 
Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim conceptualised and designed a state-of-the-
art ICT Office for the Scheme. The design had already been forwarded 
to the Federal Capital Development Authority (FCDA) and Federal 
Ministry of Works and Housing for approval. The cost of construction 
was appropriated in the 2021 Budget, and the Scheme is awaiting the 
release of funds for its commencement.  
Other laudable efforts by Gen Ibrahim to deepen effective service 
delivery include, the development of a Five-Year Strategic Development 
Plan for the Scheme, review of the NYSC Composite  Policy Document 
and documentation of the activities of the Scheme, all aimed at 
positioning the Scheme as a research hub for academics and the 
general public. 
Under his watch, the Federal Government drafted the NYSC into the 
Presidential Steering Committee on Alternate School Programme. The 
inclusion of the Corps in the Committee is in recognition of the 
invaluable contributions of the Scheme to national development, 
particularly in the sphere of Education. 
NYSC is a repository of talents, parading the most enlightened class of 
Nigerian youths, who in forty - eight years of the Scheme's existence 
have continued to make varying degrees of multi-sectoral contributions 
to the growth and well-being of the nation.  
Therefore, the inclusion of the Scheme, whose visibility has been top-
notch in the last two years as member of the Mambila Hydro Power 
Project speaks on the high premium the Federal Government places on 
the Corps. 
Undoubtedly, membership of these august bodies have clearly 
underscored the high pedestal the Director General has taken the 
Scheme in his two years of his eventful and remarkable administration.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
333 
 
In respect of improving the welfare and security of Corps Members and 
staff, in a rare demonstration of empathy and commitment to the 
welfare of Corps Members, the Director General personally visited and 
encouraged Corps Member Saidu Mohammed Adamu, who was 
admitted at the Federal Teaching Hospital, Ado-Ekiti, as a result of 
gunshot injuries that he sustained while on election duties during the 
recent bye-election held in Ekiti East Local Government Area of Ekiti 
State in March 2021.  
Similar visits were also paid to several members of the Service Corps 
on admission in hospitals in Sokoto, Katsina, Edo, Plateau, Taraba and 
Kwara States, among others, following their involvement in road traffic 
accidents. 
The Director General has also paid condolence and reassuring visits to 
the families of deceased and missing Corps Members in Plateau, 
Kaduna and Edo States. Such gestures have increased the confidence of 
Corps Members and their families in the Scheme, and have also 
engendered more zeal for patriotic service by the members of the 
Corps. 
The Director General further demonstrated his commitment to Corps 
welfare by procuring prosthetic limbs for a Corps Member in 
furtherance of his welfare policy. The sum of Thirty-two Million Naira 
(N32,000,000.00) was expended to procure the limbs for Corps 
Member, Nuraddeen Tahir from Kano State, who, along with other 
Corps Members, was involved in a road traffic accident, while on his 
way to report for Primary Assignment after the 2019 Batch ‘B’ Stream 1 
Orientation Course in Taraba State. The Corps Member, who had earlier 
lost an arm at a younger age, had the other one amputated as a result of 
the accident. The artificial limbs have already been supplied, while 
Nuraddeen was trained on the effective use of the limbs before he was 
re-united with his family. With this development, he can now 
effectively perform normal tasks such as writing with the limbs. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                  Bem J. Audu and M. Hamza  
334 
 
The Director General relentlessly pursued the issue of increment of 
Corps Members’ allowance in the wake of approval of the new National 
Minimum Wage. His effort paid-off and the allowance of Corps 
Members was increased from Nineteen thousand, Eight hundred Naira 
(N19,800.00) to Thirty-three Thousand Naira (N33,000.00). Following 
the commencement of the payment of the new rate with effect from 
January 2020, the Director General along with the Honourable Minister 
of Youth and Sports Development and some representatives of Corps 
Members paid a “Thank-you” visit to His Excellency, the President and 
Commander-in-Chief, Armed Forces, Federal Republic of Nigeria, 
Muhammadu Buhari GCFR on 6th February, 2020 at the Presidential 
Villa, Abuja. 
 
Following improvement in the security situation in the country, the 
Director General sought for, and got approval from the Federal 
Government for a return to the earlier suspended ceremonial passing-
out of Corps Members. Accordingly, the Passing-Out Ceremony of the 
2019 Batch ‘A’ Corps Members was marked with colourful parades 
nationwide, thereby increasing the visibility of the NYSC.   
The successful conduct of Orientation courses is also another 
achievement of the Director General as he oversaw the successful 
conduct of the 2019 Batch ‘B’ Streams I and II, as well as 2019 Batch ‘C’ 
Streams I and II Orientation Courses. 
As a proactive measure, NYSC Management suspended the 2020 Batch 
‘A’ Stream 1 Orientation Course just a week into the exercise as a 
deliberate effort to avert the spread of COVID-19 in the Orientation 
Camps. The commendable action equally brought to the fore his 
concern for the health and general well-being of Corps Members and 
staff. 
In recognition of his efforts at curtailing the spread of COVID-19, 
Victims Support Funds (VSF), an organisation chaired by Lt Gen TY 
Danjuma donated 60,000 RDT test kits to the Scheme. The kits are used 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
335 
 
for the screening of prospective Corps Members and camp officials for 
COVID-19 in NYSC Orientation camps nationwide.  
In his quest to expand the administrative structure of the Scheme, the 
Director General ensured the smooth take - off of the NYSC Area Offices, 
whose approval had earlier been secured by the immediate past 
administration of Gen Kazaure, one in each of the six geo-political zones 
of the country, headed by a Director on salary grade level 17. This feat 
has opened up more vacancies, allowing for posting of other cadre of 
staff alongside the Directors to man the Offices. The Area Offices are 
located in Kaduna (North West), Niger (North Central), Bauchi (North 
East), Enugu (South East), Osun (South West) and Delta (South South) 
have since taken off and have in no mean way boosted staff morale and 
operations of the Scheme. 
 
In line with one of the cardinal points of his policy thrust, the Director 
General has been pursuing policies that are geared not only towards 
motivating staff, but also promoting industrial harmony in the Scheme. 
This has been aptly demonstrated through prompt payment of 
entitlements, capacity building programmes, as well as timely and 
transparent conduct of promotion examinations. During the 2020 
Promotion Exercise for instance, One Thousand Seven Hundred and 
Eighteen (1,718) out of the Two Thousand One Hundred Fifty-One 
(2,151) officers that participated in the event were elevated to the next 
grade level after meeting the requirements stipulated in the Public 
Service Rules and NYSC Conditions of Service. Additionally, the 2021 
Senior Staff Promotion Examination recorded a huge success. The 
impact of these promotion exercises has reinforced the commitment of 
staff to work for an enhanced performance. 
Meanwhile, as Management strives to enhance the motivation of staff, 
much premium is laid on the need to have a highly disciplined 
workforce. In this regard, officers who commit infractions are 
reprimanded in line with the provisions of the Public Service Rules 
(PSR). 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                  Bem J. Audu and M. Hamza  
336 
 
On strengthening the existing collaboration with critical stakeholders, 
on assumption of office, the Director General saw the dire need to 
sustain and strengthen the existing collaboration with critical 
stakeholders to garner more support and involve them in the 
management of the Scheme. He therefore embarked on advocacy visits 
to the stakeholders such as the former Head of State, General Yakubu 
Gowon, whose administration founded the Scheme. The Director-
General has had interface with the 36 State Governors, the Governor of 
the Central Bank of Nigeria, heads of Security and Anti-Corruption 
Agencies, Federal Road Safety Corps, among other stakeholders. The 
impact of this initiative is the improvement already being achieved in 
stakeholders’ support to the Scheme which is of great essence. 
The Director General also addressed a meeting of the Nigeria 
Governors’ Forum – the first of such engagement by any Chief 
Executive of the Scheme. He used the occasion of the meeting to 
appreciate the State Governors for their support to the Scheme, 
through various intervention projects in their respective States. He 
drew their attention to other areas that needed to be addressed, being 
part of the obligations of the State Governments to the Corps, as spelt 
out in the NYSC Act. 
Consequently the hosting of the meeting of NYSC top Management with 
the representatives of State Governments and the Federal Capital 
Territory Administration, a fallout of the meeting with the Governor's 
Forum is aimed at strengthening the collaboration with the Scheme, 
with a particular focus on the discharge of the statutory obligations of 
the States and FCT to the NYSC, as spelt out in its enabling Act. 
The impact of the meeting is profound, as several State Governments 
have made remarkable gestures in support of the Scheme. Prominent 
among them is the donation of two NYSC permanent Orientation camps 
by Edo and Anambra States, plans by the Lagos State Government to 
build a 14,000 -- capacity Orientation camp and the ongoing upgrading 
and rehabilitation of camp facilities in twenty five States, while the 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
337 
 
expansion of camp facilities has commenced in nine States to meet the 
5,000 -- Corps Member and 500 -- course official -- capacity camp. 
Other notable gains derived from the meeting include, constitution of 
functional NYSC State Governing Boards in seventeen States, with 
eighteen States enhancing the regular payment of state allowance to 
Corps Members, provision and upgrading of transit camps for Corps 
Members in thirty -- one states, provision of watertight security for 
Corps Members in all the States and the FCT, issuance of circulars by 
State Governments against the rejection of Corps Members, increased 
partnership with the Association of Local Governments of Nigeria 
(ALGON), provision of decent accommodation or payment of allowance 
in lieu of that to Corps Members and provision of office and residential 
accommodation by the States hosting the Headquarters of the Area 
Offices. 
In Promoting NYSC/Media relations, the Director General has since 
assumption of duty, strived to strengthen the cordial relations the 
Scheme enjoys with the Media. This, he kick-started with his maiden 
chat with Editors, Bureau Chiefs and Youth Correspondents of various 
Media Organisations in the country on 15th August, 2019. Brig Gen S 
Ibrahim also paid courtesy visits to Media offices in Abuja, including 
the Headquarters of the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA), News 
Agency of Nigeria (NAN), Media Trust Limited and Leadership Group 
Limited.  Similar visits with Director-General’s directive were also 
made to Lagos Head Offices of The Punch, Daily Sun, The Nation 
newspapers, among others. He has consistently maintained his Media-
friendly posture, thereby attracting wider publicity for the Scheme’s 
activities.  
To deepen and sustain the wide publicity that the Scheme has enjoyed, 
he has resuscitated the production and airing of the NYSC Half Hour 
programme on NTA International Channel 251 and Armed Forces 
Radio FM.  So far, plans have reached an advanced stage to establish the 
first ever NYSC FM Radio that will be useful to adequately drive the 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                  Bem J. Audu and M. Hamza  
338 
 
publicity efforts of the Scheme and showcase its activities to Nigerians 
and the entire world. 
The Director-General in furtherance of his transparent, inspirational 
and all-inclusive style of administration paid visits to some former 
Chief Executives of the Scheme. The gesture was aimed at appreciating 
their respective contributions to the development of Scheme when they 
were in the saddle of leadership, and also tap into their vast wealth of 
experience. The former Chief Executives appreciated the initiative as it 
was the first ever visit paid simultaneously to them. 
The maiden meeting with the Registrars of some Foreign Corps 
Producing Institutions was also held, having, uncovered the fraudulent 
activities of some tertiary institutions in Africa, especially in the West 
Africa sub region which have the penchant to issue questionable 
academic certificates to unqualified persons, who in turn present same 
to get mobilised for national service. The Director-General has 
commenced an aggressive fight against this menace which has earned 
him the commendation of the President, His Excellency Muhammadu 
Buhari GCFR, during his address at the 2018/2019 President's NYSC 
Honours Award Ceremony. Similar commendations were given to him 
by a broad spectrum of vice chancellors of some indigenous and foreign 
institutions, including the Honourable Minister of Education. 
In addition to hosting the meeting with the Registrars, internal 
mechanisms have been put in place for easier detection of unqualified 
persons attempting to present themselves for mobilisation for service.  
As a result of the stance of Management, some of the foreign 
institutions are now volunteering to alert NYSC of suspected fraudulent 
practices by their students. Interestingly, out of over twenty thousand 
(20,000) persons who registered online as foreign-trained prospective 
Corps Members of the 2019 Batch ‘C’ Service Year, only three thousand, 
four hundred and twenty (3,420) turned up for the pre-mobilisation 
physical screening of their credentials.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
339 
 
To serve as a deterrent to others, sixty-five (65) unqualified persons 
arrested during the 2019 Batch ‘B’ Stream II Orientation Course in 
camps across the country are being prosecuted with some convictions 
already secured. These steps taken by Management have helped to 
create national awareness, especially on the need for parents and 
guardians to check the accreditation status of the institutions attended 
by their wards, and also monitor their academic progress. 
The bold move by the Director General in sanitising the mobilisation 
process will also ensure that only well trained and competent persons 
occupy critical positions that will fast-track the development of the 
country.  
The Director-General has equally hosted a national sensitisation 
programme on the NYSC Act on 24th July, 2019 in Abuja. Prior to this, it 
was clear that many Nigerians were not aware of the provisions of the 
Act – a situation that has led to avoidable infractions. With the 
sensitisation, which is still on-going, organisations and individuals are 
now having better understanding of their obligations to the Scheme. In 
particular, cases of evasion and abscondment from Service, especially 
by the foreign-trained Nigerian graduates, are expected to reduce 
drastically.  
Broadly looking at the reinvigoration of the NYSC ventures and skill 
acquisition and entrepreneurship development programme in line with 
NYSC Act for greater impact, the Director General has been speaking 
passionately about his desire to make the Skill Acquisition and 
Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) Programme and NYSC 
Ventures Management Departments more functional. 
 
To match words with actions, he has taken several steps towards 
reinvigorating the SAED programme, including, but not limited to the 
following: 
• Renewal of commitment by the NYSC and Bank of Industry 
towards the resuscitation of empowerment of Corps 
entrepreneurs with business loans under the BOI-NYSC 
Graduate Empowerment Fund. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                  Bem J. Audu and M. Hamza  
340 
 
• Intensive monitoring of GEF beneficiaries. 
• New collaboration with NIRSAL Microfinance Bank on 
empowerment of Corps entrepreneurs. 
• New partnership with Unity Bank Plc on a programme named 
‘Allawee’ aimed at empowering Corps members.  
• Collaboration with British-American Tobacco Foundation on 
empowerment of Corps Members with agricultural skills and 
business trainings, farm internship, mentoring and farm input 
supplies. 
• Hosting of the 2020 NYSC SAED Stakeholders meeting aimed at 
reviewing the programme implementation strategies, as well as 
strengthening of existing partnerships and exploring new ones 
for further technical and material support. 
• Pursuing the completion of the North West Skill Acquisition 
Centre in Kazaure, Jigawa State, this is now at advanced stage. 
• Commencement of work on the North Central Skill Acquisition 
Centre in Keffi, Nasarawa State. 
• Research-based collaboration with OAU-NACETEM sponsored 
by a Canadian Agency, International Development Research 
Centre on evaluation of the impact of SAED and reinvigorating 
it for greater impact. 
• Resuscitation of NYSC Water Factory and Bakery at NYSC 
Orientation Camp Kubwa. The NYSC Water Factory and Bakery 
were revived and revitalised by the Director-General 
immediately he assumed office, and these two ventures are now 
producing at full capacity. The water and bread produced in 
these ventures are being supplied to the FCT, Nasarawa, Kogi, 
Kaduna and Niger State Orientation camps and the general 
public. These ventures now generate revenue to the Scheme 
and help Corps Members acquire skills too. 
• Purchase of modern farm equipment for the four NYSC 
functional farms namely, NYSC Farm Kwali in FCT, Saminaka, 
Kebbi State, Dungulbi, Bauchi State and Iseyin Oyo State. Each 
of these farms now has tractors and other basic farm 
equipment. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
341 
 
• The consistent support in terms of funding and staffing has 
increased the hectares under cultivation from 60 hectares to 
160 hectares during the 2020 farming season. 
• Reclaiming of NYSC farmland at Ezillo which hitherto was 
collected by the Ebonyi State Government. Immediately after 
the reclaiming, tractor was purchased for farming operations at 
the Ezillo Farm. 
• The structure of Ventures Management Department was 
expanded which gave room for the promotion of staff, and has 
in no mean way motivated the staff members. 
• Registration of the two NYSC Garment Factories, Water Factory 
and Bakery with the Corporate Affairs Commission. Arising 
from the last Meeting of the NYSC Top Management with 
Representatives of State Governments, the Governors of Edo 
and Ekiti States announced the donation of land for the sitting 
of two garment factories which will boost the production of 
Corps Members’ kit items. 
• Developing partnership with relevant institutions such as 
International Institute for Tropical Agriculture (IITA), National 
Agricultural Land Development Agency (NALDA), NCRI, NCAM, 
ARMTI, NCAC etc. to enhance the productivity of NYSC 
Farms/Ventures among others. 
• Resuscitation of moribund NYSC Feedmill, Lagos. The mill is 
now ready to start production of animal feeds. 
• Construction of new poultry pen at NYSC farm Kwali, FCT. 
• The Director General has met with the State Governors and 
other stakeholders with a view to securing land in all the States 
for agricultural production. 
 
In addition to the above, twelve States have opened up their skills 
centres for the post camp training of Corps Members to further 
strengthen the skills and entrepreneurship training acquired in camp. 
• The tremendous support given by the Director General has 
repositioned all the NYSC Ventures for greater revenue 
generation for the Scheme.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                  Bem J. Audu and M. Hamza  
342 
 
Interestingly, the Scheme paid into the national coffers over Two 
Hundred and Eighty Million Naira (N280,000,000.00) as internally 
generated revenue which is unprecedented in the annals of the Scheme. 
The Director General who has introduced the use of name tags by every 
member of staff for easy identification, equally in an unprecedented 
move sought the help of the Federal Government in tackling the 
ecological challenges confronting some of the NYSC Orientation camps. 
Government granted the request through the deployment of Ecological 
Fund to tackle the menace. Eight camps have been approved as 
beneficiaries in the first phase of the intervention. Already, work is 
ongoing in Cross River, Taraba, FCT and Nasarawa Orientation camps.  
 
In recognition of his service to the nation, Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim 
who has institutionalised Farewell Parade for outgoing NYSC Chief 
Executives - a novelty, has received numerous commendations and 
awards which include:  
• Chief of Army Staff Award as the Overall Best Participant for 
2013 NAEC Executive Management Course. 
• Nigerian Institute of Public Relations (NIPR) Special 
Recognition Award 2014. 
• Award for Distinguished Professional Contributions to Public 
Service/Fellowship (FCAI) by Institute of Corporate 
Administration. 
• Professional National Award (Historical Society of Nigeria HSN) 
and 
• Chief of Army Staff Commendation Letter 2018.  
 
Conclusion 
The above discourse has given an insight on the achievements of 
General Shuaibu Ibrahim since becoming the Director General of the 
National Youth Service Corps. Within the last two years, the Scheme has 
made some giant strides owing to the pursuit of strict implementation 
of the Director General’s five-point policy thrust. Therefore, the 
contributions of Brig Gen Ibrahim to the NYSC since his ascension into 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
343 
 
office cannot be overemphasised. These contributions are indeed 
remarkable, and will undoubtedly stand the test of time, having set the 
Scheme on growth trajectory and continuous relevance.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND NIGERIA’S HEALTH SECTOR                  Bem J. Audu and M. Hamza  
344 
 
Bibliography 
 
A. J. Afolayan et al. Selected Speeches and Strides of the 18th NYSC 
Director General: Brigadier General S. Ibrahim, Abuja: NYSC 
National Directorate Headquarters, 2020. 
Achebe C. The Trouble with Nigeria, Enugu: Fourth Dimension 
Publishers, 1998. 
Appadorai A, The Substance of Politics, London: Oxford University 
Press, 2004. 
Audu B.J. “Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim and the Reinvigoration of NYSC,” 
in C.C.C. Osakwe et al (eds.) War, Society and Leadership in 
Nigeria: Essays in Honour of Brigadier General Shuaibu 
Ibrahim, Kaduna: Nigerian Defence Academy Press. 
Economic Confidential, NYSC: Rebranding for Revenue Generation, 
Youth Empowerment-Brig. Shuaib, D.G”, Vol. 13 (154), July, 
2020. 
Gen. Ibrahim attended NAEC (Nigerian Army Education Corps), Young 
Officers Course 1994; Infantry (INF) Young Officers Course 
1996; Training Development Advisers Course (TDA) 2004; and 
NAEC Officers’ Executive Management Course, 2013. Cited in 
The Nation, “NYSC: As a Patriot Assumes Duty”, February 19, 
2019.  
Klingborg D.J. “Leadership and Professional Development,” in Journal of 
Veterinary Medical Education, Davis: University of California, 
2006. 
Media Evaluation of Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim, 2020. 
NYSC National Directorate Headquarters, Selected Speeches and 
Strides of the 18th NYSC Director General, Compiled May 2020, 
by the Special Duties Department. 
NYSC News in A Journal of NYSC Directorate Headquarters, Abuja: 
NYSC Publication. 
NYSC. Media Assessment  
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
345 
 
Sharma, M.K. and S. Jain. “Leadership Management: Principles, Models 
and Theories,” in Global Journal of Management and Business 
Studies. ISSBN 2248-9878 Volume 3, Number 3, 2013. 
 
Oral Interview 
 
Interviews with NYSC Coordinator   
Jibril Umar, Head of Ventures Kubwa, 50+, Interviewed at Kubwa 
Abuja, 15/3/21 
Emeka -- Rems Mgbemena, Deputy Director and Head, Publications 
Division, Press and Public Relations Unit, NYSC National 
Directorate Headquarters, Abuja, 50+, Interviewed at Abuja, 
15/3/21  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Abah, J., iv, 19, 
Abdulazeez, S. T., 50, 54, 71, 
76, 
Abdullahi, H., 304, 323, 
Abdulrahman, I., 16, 
Abubakar Audu University, iv, 
Abuja initiative, 27, 
Acheampong, P. T., 276, 298,
Achebe, C., 344, 
Adedeji, A., 179, 
Adeshida, A., 178, 191, 
Adeyemo, D. O., 17, 
Adimekwe, S. A., 256, 272, 
276, 298, 
Adomgbe, A. E., iii, 208, 
Africa, 48, 98, 154, 277, 
Agbazue, V . E., 238, 239, 253,
Agha, S., 68, 72, 74, 76, 
Ahmadu Bello University, 328, 
Ajibaye, A. O., 282, 299, 
Ajibola, P. B., 233, 254, 
Akinshola, H. A., 11, 
Akinwamide, T. K., 320, 323, 
Akunne, O., 192, 205, 
Aliyu, R., ii, x, 
Alma-Ata Declaration, 17, 
110, 161, 168, 
Amaka, J. I., 310, 323, 
Amehichaba, A., 96, 
Amoke, O., 51, 54, 
Amos, V ., 46, 54, 66, 74,
Anambra state, 280, 292, 296, 
Anan, K., 42, 
Anasi, S. N., 38, 54,
Anijah-Obi, F. N., 285, 298, 
Ankrah, E. M., 67, 74, 
Ainsworth, M., 69, 75, 
Aregbesola, B. S., 17, 174, 
Aremu, A. S., 40, 54, 277, 298, 
Arigbo, P. O., 137, 141, 155, 
Arubay, D. O., 73, 74, 
Asiegbu, M. A., 3, 
Asuzu, M. C., 5, 
ASWAMA, 296, 
Atta, E. B., 9, 
Audu, B. J., ii, iii, x, 325, 344, 
Audu, U. F., 282, 299, 
Awka, 281, 
346
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Babalola, O., 189, 191, 
Babangida, I. B., 307, 
Baikie, A., 5,
Balogun A., 5, 78, 79, 80, 81, 
82, 
BCC, 89,
Bello, H., 276, 298, 
Bennet, S., 138, 155, 
Benue state university, iii,
BHSS, 161, 
Boakye, S., 286, 298, 
Borno state, 327,
Bornstein, D. A., 140, 155, 
brain drain, 29,
bubonic plague, 77, 
Buhari, M., 267, 334, 338, 
Burma, 301, 
capacity-building, 185, 
Chinwe, N. C., 234, 235, 236, 
253, 
Christopher, A., iii, 255, 
civil war, 44, 118, 128, 177, 
231, 
corona virus, 78, 327, 
corruption, 31, 32, 329, 
COVID-19, 42, 68, 78, 97, 265, 
327, 330, 335, 
Crawford, D., 99, 116, 
cultural tourism, 120, 
Daka, T., 268, 
Daniel, C., 43, 54, 
Daramola, O. P., 260, 272, 277, 
298, 
Darego, I. T., 138, 156, 
David, H., 49, 54, 
Debom, M. T., 138, 156, 
deployment, 310, 
DR Congo, 98, 114, 
drug abuse, 121, 123, 127, 300, 
301, 302, 304, 314, 
drug addict, 313, 
Eberly, D. J., 137, 156, 
Ebola virus, 97,98,99, 100,101, 
104, 106,109, 112, 113, 
114, 
economic empowerment, 197, 
Edo state, 164, 333, 
EFCC, 330, 
Egbule, J., 99, 106, 116, 
EIA, 235, 
Ejike, K., 232, 253, 
Ekong, I. E., 260, 271, 272, 
273, 
Elemure, V . E., 138, 141, 156, 
Emuakpor, A. S., 2, 
Enegwea, G., 179, 183, 191, 
229, 253, 273, 
environmental corrosion, 255, 
deterioration, 276, 
protection, 232, 245, 
257, 292, 
sanitation, 244, 255, 
2 5 6 ,  2 5 7 ,  2 6 0 ,  2 6 3 ,  
276, 282, 295, 
Fajewonyomi, B. A., 16, 
Falda, H. O., 142, 153, 156, 
Farco, D. O., 141, 156, 
Fendall, N. R. E., 8, 12, 
FEPA, 232, 233, 234, 235, 
fertility, 86, 
Fouguet, R., 139, 157,
France, 135, 
Franco, L. M., 138, 155, 
Frankish, C. J., 42, 55,
Gabon, 100, 
Gage, H., 141, 156, 
Garland, J. C., 85, 
Geneva, 22, 36, 
347
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Ghana, 135, 
Gigane, U. Y ., 319, 320, 321, 
324, 
Gowon, Y ., xi, 128, 179, 
Great Britain, 4, 
Habel, K., 97, 116, 
Hakim, L., 258, 273, 
Hamza, M., ii, iv, x, 325, 
Hannan, A. M., 67, 75, 
health care delivery, 1, 2, 9, 15, 
financing, 241, 
initiative, 183, 
Hecht, R., 70, 75, 
Hippocratic Oath, 32, 
HIRD, viii, 107, 108, 162, 163, 
166, 168, 173, 225, 226, 
HIV/AIDS, viii, 22, 23, 26, 49, 
57, 61, 63, 65, 66, 69, 
77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 84, 85, 87, 
90, 92, 94, 95, 165, 190, 199, 
200, 220, 
Hockenbury,  D. H., 140, 157, 
Huber, M., 60, 75, 259, 274, 
Ibi, 7, 
Ibidunmi, A. S., 153, 156, 
Ibrahim, S., ii, x, 325, 327, 328, 
332, 342, 
Ichaba, A. A., iii, 
Ida, 7, 
IDA, ix, 
Ikeke, M. O., 270, 
Ikoro, D. E., 137, 141, 155, 
Ilorin, 7, 
IMC, 101, 
immunization, 31, 181, 183, 
India, 301, 
industrial strike, 33, 
infectious disease, 41, 43, 
infirmity, 208, 
influenza, 77, 
insecurity, 148, 
Ishaq, A., iii, 300, 
Israel, 135, 
Itodo, U. F., iii, 1, 92, 
Ityavya, D., 6, 
Iwu, R. U., 47, 55, 
Iyere, J., 1, 2, 
Jinaidu, M. K., 16,  
Kaduna, ii, 7, 335, 
Kano, 12, 41, 
Kazaure, S., 201, 335, 
Khan, S. M., 17, 
Kogi state, 135, 143, 
Kwara state, 186, 187, 
Ladan, M. T., 241, 254, 
Ladele, A. A., 71, 74, 
Lawal, O., 187, 188, 191, 
Lamido, U. A., iv, 177, 
leadership, 37, 180, 345, 
Leonard, A., iii, 160, 
Liberia, 100, 
Lippman, S. A., 60, 62, 63, 76, 
Lokoja, 7, 143, 144, 
London University, 112, 
Lucas, A. O., 16, 162, 176, 
Luloff, A. E., 269, 274, 
Madu, I. A., 182, 191, 
Maman, S., 60, 63, 
Mamman, H., 315, 323, 
Mansaray, A., 282, 299, 
Marcus, T., 69, 76, 
Mbemba, G.I.C., 153, 157, 
McMichael, A. J., 44, 55, 
Melvin, A. G. A., iii, 229, 
Mgbemena, E. R., 345, 
Mohammed, L., 231, 
Mohammed, M., 64, 247, 
Monrovia, 101, 
348
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

morbidity, 48, 
mortality rate, 22, 
mutual fidelity, 68, 
NACA, 15, 85, 
NAFDAC, 46, 47, 125, 126, 
128, 223, 240, 317, 319, 
national cohesion, 177, 
National Defence College, 327, 
Development Plan, 9, 
10, 
 Health Care, 18, 161, 
Health Policy, 162, 
 security, 47, 
nation-building, 37, 177, 
NCDC, 103, 264, 331, 
NDLEA, 46, 47, 125, 126, 128, 
132, 133, 134, 223, 300, 
301, 305, 308, 309, 312, 
317, 
NESREA, 236, 238, 239, 240, 
243, 245, 247, 249, 250, 
270, 
Ngang, B. U., 238, 
NPHCDA, 98, 106, 110, 111, 
112, 115, 116, 162, 200, 
NHIS, 25, 
NHMIS, 23, 26, 112, 
Nigerian Defence Academy, iii, 
iv, 327, 
NMA, 210, 
Nnamani, D. O., 142, 157, 
Ntagu, M. P., iv, 37, 275, 
Nursing Council, 13, 
Obadare, E., 39, 55, 
Obansa, S. A., 139, 158,
Obar, J. A., 60, 75, 259, 
Odikpa, S., iv, 1, 176, 
Odimegwu, I., 4, 
Ogbodo, G. S., 233, 254, 
Ogunne, M., 268, 
Ogunshola, F., 113, 117, 301, 
Ogunsola, S., 301, 302, 305, 
312, 315, 324, 
Oguwuike, T. U., 47, 55, 
Okafor, E. E., 181, 191, 
Okafor, I. P., 308, 322, 
Oladipo, A. R., 16, 
Olawumi, J., 188, 189, 
Omekusi, G. C., 137, 155, 
Omoleke, I. I., 32, 35, 
Onoja, A. I., 47, 55, 
Orimisa, A., 139, 158, 
OVC, 86. 
PLWA, 71, 80, 
policy formulation, 27, 28, 
pollution, 50, 231, 234, 
control, 235, 
poor motivation, 30, 
poverty, 118, 
eradication, 59, 197,
primary assignment, 46, 65, 
252, 
health care, 23, 109, 
110, 161, 162, 172, 211, 
216, 
Promise, C. V ., 275, 
public health 283,  
Pyla-Mak Publishers Ltd., ii, 
Ransom-Kuti, O., 10, 11, 17, 
reconciliation, 231, 
recruitment, 33, 
Red Cross, 40, 198, 199, 
redeployment, 136, 
rehabilitation, 196, 
resource mobilization, 200, 
restorative care, 196, 
retraining, 33, 
SACA, 85, 
349
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

sanitation, 242, 266, 
sanitization, 34, 
SAP, 213, 
SARS, 44, 
Schram, R. A., 5, 7, 15, 
Scott-Emnakpor, A., 5, 11, 14, 
SDOH, 43, 
sensitization, 52, 57, 73, 89, 
183, 184, 258, 319, 321, 
SEPAS, 235, 
Shanghai, A. C., 286, 299, 
Shuaib, F., 97, 102, 104, 117, 
Sierra Leone, 100, 
social mobilization, xii, 60, 67, 
105, 170, 180, 200, 
socio-cultural regeneration, 59, 
259, 
Sokoto state, 227, 
Solomon, M., 64, 
South Sudan, 98, 
Soviet Union, 230, 
STD, 3, 
Stern, P. C., 284, 288, 298, 299, 
Stine, G. J., 77, 
Sule, A., iii, 135, 
Sussman, S., 303, 304, 324, 
Taraba state, 164, 
Tersoo, O. S., iv, 77, 
tertiary health care, 17, 
the reproductive health, 223, 
Theodori, G. L., 269, 274, 
trafficking, 301, 307, 
Ubrurhe, J. O., 3, 
UCH, 6, 11, 217, 
Uganda, 80, 136, 
Ugbegidi, S. I., 83, 84, 85, 86, 
87, 93, 
Ugwuoke, K. A., 306, 308, 324, 
UHC, 210, 
Ukase, P., ii, xi, 
Ukpong, S., 283, 299, 
UNAIDS, 22, 58, 63, 65, 70, 
76, 
UNDP, 19, 
Uneke, C., 13,         
UNICEF, 38, 56, 58, 71, 165, 
219, 274, 
United Kingdom, 217, 
United Nations, 19, 208, 
University of Abuja, 327, 
University of Jos, 327, 
University of Manchester, 73, 
University of Nigeria, 12, 
University of Sokoto, 12, 
USA, 135, 
Ututu, N., 84, 86, 88, 
Welcome, M. O., 14, 
WHO, 20, 27, 29, 33, 35, 36, 
43, 58, 61, 63, 76, 84, 
110, 117, 159, 197, 206, 
208, 315, 
WMA, 32, 
World Bank, 21, 24, 25, 35, 
159, 167, 
World War II, 6,
World War I, 7, 
WOTCLEF, 89, 
Wunsch, J., 10, 
Yaba Medial College, 14, 
Zimbabwe, 136,   
Zungeru, 7, 
350
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT