NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Community Development Service in Historical Context 
1 
 
 11 11    
    Community Development Service in Historical 
Context 
 
 
Nadir A. Nasidi 
 
 
Introduction    
Community Development Service has been an integral part of human 
development throughout the existence of man. Apart from the fact that 
it is a global phenomenon, the case of sub-Saharan Africa is not only 
unique, but is also deeply rooted in the African tradition. This tradition 
is surely that of self-help as both individualistic and collective 
responsibility for the betterment of all and sundary. Patel and Wilson 
observe that communities normally organize themselves for 
community service which is directly hinged on voluntary 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                        Nadir A. Nasidi 
2 
 
engagements1 . It is therefore rationale that most African communities 
have specific words for community service. Some of these words 
include the Kiswahili Kujitolea, the Hausa aikingayya or the Ubuntu 
tradition derived from the Bantu culture2. In specification to Nigeria, 
Community service is no doubt common to virtually all Nigerian 
cultures. Its beginning however, is unconsciously buried in the distant 
past. Community service cuts across different spheres of human life 
ranging from collective sanitations, hunting in bands, building, rituals 
to the provision of security mostly by either vigilante, or secret 
societies3. Though people of all classes and ages engaged in community 
services world-wide, the youths play abigger role in this regard 
probably due to their brawn and youthful exuberance. In line with this 
assertion, Manyerere argues that, ‘youth involvement in development 
programmes is crucial to empower their communities; as well as to 
make them lifelong participants in development projects by inculcating 
in them a sense of ownership in development initiatives’4. 
Chan and Elder opine that youth’s participation in community service is 
directly linked to the efforts made by their parents in that regard. This 
according to them is the fact that parents can shaper their children’s 
                                                           1L.Patel, and T. Wilson, ‘Civic Service in Sub-Saharan Africa’, Non-Profit and 
Voluntary Sector Quarterly, 33.4,(2014).  2N.Menon, , A Moore. andSherraden, M., ‘ Understanding Service: Words in the 
Context of History and Culture . Washington: Centre for Social Development 
Global Service Institute,2002.  3N. A. Nasidi, ‘Religious Diversity and Peaceful Co-existence on the Mambilla 
Plateau: A Lesson for the Nigerian State’. In Osakwe, C.C., Leadership and 
Complex Military Operations, (Kaduna: Centre for the Study of Leadership and 
Complex Military Operations, Nigerian Defense Academy, 2015), 564-573, 
Enemou, F.C., ‘Youth Mobilisation for Nation-Building: The Case of the National 
Youth Service Corps Scheme in Nigeria’, A Paper prepared for the Ford 
Foundation Workshop in Youth Involvement as a Strategy for Social, Economic 
and Democratic Development, Costa Rica, 2001.  4D. Manyerere, ‘The Role of Youth Volunteerism in the Achievement of Local 
Development Initiatives in Iringa Region, Tanzania’, Tanzania Journal of 
Development Studies, 17.1, (2019): 82. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Community Development Service in Historical Context 
3 
 
social choices through their social and economic actions, which 
invariably, inspire them about the importance and relevance of 
community service to one’s societal development5. Meanwhile, 
community development can take many shapes and forms depending 
on the needs and circumstances on ground. In this regard therefore, it 
may be social, political, or economic. Not only that, it may be in terms of 
monetary support, services rendered or even as a moral support. 
Community development service had also been part and parcel of the 
human life in both historical and recent times. In the post-colonial 
period however, the emergence of various local and international 
organisations have championed the cause of community development 
in many ways. Though the focus of this paper is not directly on the 
roles of such organisations, an effort is made to examine the dynamics 
of community development in a fast changing world that is grounded in 
science and technology. This is more so with the globalization of the 
world by reducing it to a small village with the internet as its modus 
operandi. 
This paper therefore, attempts to provide a holistic view of the 
historical evolution of community development services, its roles in the 
socio-political and economic life of human beings and of course, some 
of the challenges associated with it. To achieve this goal, a number of 
literature is equally reviewed with the sole aim of not only defining the 
concept of community development service, but also in contextualizing 
it within the Nigerian experience through its multi-ethnic settings. 
Analysis and submissions of this paper are not water-tight, an effort is 
also made to explore the major contributions of community 
                                                           5C. G Chan, and G. H Elder, ‘Family Influences on the Social Participation of 
Youth: The Effects of Parental Social Involvement and Farming’, Rural Sociology, 
66.1, (2001): 22-42. See also, Fletcher, A.C., Elder, G.H. AND Mekos, D., 
‘Parental Influences on Adolescent Involvement in Community Activities’, Journal 
of Research on Adolescence, 10 (2000):  29-48., Parke, R.D. and Ladd, G.N. (Eds.), 
Family-Peer Relationships: Modes of Linkages. U.S.A: Routledge,2016. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                        Nadir A. Nasidi 
4 
 
development service and some of the factors debilitating against it. 
Though the title of this paper seems to be generic rather than specific, 
it made an incursion into the role of the National Youth Service Corps 
(NYSC) as an example of the dual mental effort in the promotion of 
unity and community development service across the Nigerian state. 
 
Community Development 
Though there is no universally accepted definition of development, 
many scholars have made several attempts to define the concept. This 
is so because, even development theorists do not provide a meaningful 
explanation of the concept of development.6 As the development needs 
of one country differs from another so is the context that tends to shape 
the definition of the term. For instance, the effort made by scholars to 
give development a purely economic undertone is not only misleading, 
but also, grossly deficient as it fails to take into consideration, its socio-
cultural and political dimensions.  It is in line with this submission that 
Pearson argues that development does not refer to either social, 
political, or economic spheres of humans, but it is distinctively a hybrid 
term for ‘a myriad of strategies adopted for socio-economic and 
environmental transformation from current states to desired ones.7 
In theorizing the concept of development, which is deeply rooted in the 
western civilization, a number of theories evolved with the aim of 
understanding the dynamics and facts of development at least in 
several contexts. Among these theories popularized by scholars are; 
Modernization and Dependency. Of all these theories however, Grass-
root and Development theory tends to suit the major thrusts of this 
paper. This theory deals with any effort made by an individual, groups 
and government to enhance the capacity of grass-root levels of people 
                                                           6R. Abuiyada‘Traditional Development Theories Have Failed with Reference to 
GAD’, International Journal of Business and Social Science, 9.9, (2008): 1.  7R.Pearson, ‘Rethinking Gender Matters in Development’, in Allen, T. and 
Thomas, A. (Eds.). Poverty and Development into the 21 st Century. Oxford: Oxford 
University Press, 2008.  
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Community Development Service in Historical Context 
5 
 
so as to influence their, or rather, develop them socially, politically, or 
even economically. 8 
Community Development can be seen as both a phenomenon dealing 
with the reorganization and reorientation of economic and social 
system, or as a continuous process of improving the quality of human 
lives in its entirety. This by extension, incorporates (1) Raising peoples’ 
standard of living with particular reference to incomes, consumption 
and utility (2) providing a conducive atmosphere to enhance peoples’ 
self-esteem through the introduction of socio-political and economic 
systems to promote mutual respect for all and (3) to provide freedom 
of choice in terms of variables, varieties of goods and services. 
In defining the concept of development generally, Rabie attempts to 
give the term a broader perspective rather than reducing it strictly to 
economic explanation. According to him: 
Development is basically an economic concept that has 
positive connotations; it involves the application of 
certain economic and technical measures to utilize 
available resources to instigate economic growth and 
improve peoples’ quality of life. In the 1950s and 
1960s, development was largely referred to as 
economic growth, which meant a qualitative rather 
than quantitative change in economic performance. 
Consequently, development theories were designed to 
activate and accelerate the process of economic growth 
and move developing nations along the path charted by  
industrial activity to relying primarily on industrial 
production and trade9. 
                                                           8J. Friedman, Empowerment: The Politics of Alternative Development . Oxford: 
Oxford Blackwell Press, 1980. 9M., ARabieTheory of Sustainable Socio-Cultural and Economic Development, 
(Unpublished Paper, 2016). 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                        Nadir A. Nasidi 
6 
 
To Rabie, it is an obvious misconception for one to define development 
from a purely economic point of view. This is because, no amount of 
money pumped can develop an economy if it excludes the culture 
governing the ethics and psychology of the people who are supposed to 
be managing the economy, especially by enacting sound policies and 
programmes. This particular view is also supported by many scholars10 . 
 
NYSC and Community Development Service 
With the termination of the Nigerian First Republic (1960-1966) as a 
result of the first coup that took place, the country plunged into socio-
economic and political confusion.11  Among the factors that further 
polarized the country and its people, particularly along divisive 
religion-regional lines were tribalism, nepotism, corruption and ill-
feeling towards people of different religion-cultural and ethnic 
backgrounds. This is because; Nigerians fail to define their 
relationships with their differences. The 1966 coup therefore opened 
the Pandora’s’ Box the end results were the July Counter-Coup and the 
Nigerian Civil War (1967-1970). Through these turbulent and chaotic 
times, many Nigerians lost their lives and properties worth billions of 
Naira, infrastructures as well were destroyed.12   
From the foregoing, it would be observed that the focal point of the 
NYSC scheme is to foster national unity, mutual understanding and 
                                                           10J. Soares and R., Quintella‘Development: An Analysis of Concepts, Measurement 
and Indicators’, Brazilian Administration Review, 5.2 (2008): 1.  11N. A Nasidi, ‘Exploring the Dimensions of Secessionist Agitations: Security 
Threats and Implications for Nigeria 1966-2016’, in Defence, Security, Economy 
and Development in Nigeria , Vol. 2. London: Bahiti and Dalila Publishers,2017, 
pg289-304. 12 Among the leaders killed were; Sir Ahmadu Bello (The Premier of the Northern 
Region and the Sardauna of Sokoto), Sir AbubakarTafawaBalewa (The Prime 
Minister of Nigeria), Chief Samuel Ladoke (The Premier of the Western Region), 
Chief Festus OkotieEboh (The Federal Minister of Finance), and some senior 
northern Nigerian military officers like ZakariMaimalari, Col. Kuru Muhammad, 
Col. Ralph Shodeinde, Lieutenant Colonels AbogoLargema and Yakubu Pam.  
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Community Development Service in Historical Context 
7 
 
respect among Nigerians. It should be noted that, apart from the series 
of training (both mental and physical) given to the Nigerian graduates 
during their three weeks camping, they are also assigned Primary 
Assignments (PA), especially at schools (both public and private), 
hospitals (for medical graduates), government and private firms, to 
mention, but just a few. It is therefore at such places of Primary 
Assignments that corps members are introduced into the rubrics of 
community development as they are paid some stipends, but not 
salaries to render services based on their respective areas of 
specialization. 
Furthermore, in one of their working days, corps members are 
mandated to attend a Community Development Service at any of the 
bodies they are assigned to such as Economic and Financial Crimes 
Commission (EFCC), National Agency for Food and Drug 
Administration Control (NAFDAC), National Drug Law Enforcement 
Agency (NDLEA), National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), to 
mention, but four. Part of the major objectives of the CDS is to:13  
1. Inculcate in the corps members the tradition of the dignity of 
labour.  
2. Bring them closer to their host communities and by teaching 
them to contribute to the local development efforts. 
3. Provide a good platform for corps members, through working 
with the host community, to acquire local customs and 
comprehensive knowledge of the people.  
4. Motivate their local communities to enable the spirit of self-
help projects without relying on the government.  
                                                           13 For details, see the following; NYSC, Decree and Amendments . No. 28 Vol. 60, 
May 23rd, Part A, 1973, NYSC, NYSC Handbook. Lagos: NYSC Directorate, 1974, 
NYSC,A Compendium of the National Youth Service Corps Scheme: Ten Years of 
Service to the Nation (Lagos: NYSC Directorate, 1983), NYSC, Community 
Development Service. Lagos: NYSC Directorate,1984. NYSC, 12 Years of National 
Youth Service in Nigeria : 1973-1985 (Lagos: NYSC Directorate, 1985,NYSC, The 
Integrator: Annual Publication of NYSC Scheme. Imo State: NYSC,1989. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                        Nadir A. Nasidi 
8 
 
The nature of the NYSC’s CDS cuts across almost every facet of life such 
as; building roads, bridge construction, sanitation, spread of education 
through teaching, or the establishment of libraries, rendering free 
medical care, especially to the less privileged, enlightenment of 
community based organisations (CBOs), among many important things. 
To ensure the full participation of corps members, a number of 
penalties is set aside for defaulters. Through this process, many of them 
learn the culture of community development service. Meanwhile, 
awards are also given by both the NYSC and the CDS groups to 
outstanding corps members in community development issues. This 
recognition has no doubt lured many Nigerian graduates into putting in 
their best (physical, mental and financial) in trying to change the lives 
of their host communities in a number of ways. With that spirit of self-
help, many corps members extend the same tradition to their 
respective working places (both public and private) many years after 
their one year National Youth Service Corps (NYSC). It is also on this 
basis that the following sub-head looks into the role of community 
development service in the lives of both the actors and the various 
beneficiaries at local and national levels. 
 
The Role of Community Development Service 
Since this paper has previously attempted to define the concept of 
community development, this section focuses mainly on the 
importance of community development service. One of the most 
important roles of community service is the fact that it promotes the 
spirit of philanthropy amongst people. This is no doubt one of the main 
aims of the NYSC programme. The hope is that, as soon as corps 
members pass out from the scheme, most of them imbibe the habit of 
community development, which they carry with them as a guiding 
tradition throughout their lives. 
Community development service also brings a lot of development into 
the lives of the beneficiaries. This may come in different modes. For 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Community Development Service in Historical Context 
9 
 
instance, a community that is in a dire need of water supply will surely 
appreciate anyone who can provide it for them. This is because it can 
change their lives in many ways. Meanwhile, community development 
service always contributes to the development of not only a 
community, but a state and a nation by extension. Large number of 
philanthropists can transform a society in its entirety even without 
government involvement and this is the sole aim of CDS in the NYSC 
scheme. One can conveniently cite as many examples as possible about 
the way and manner corps members transform the lives of fellow 
Nigerians via the CDS. This development ranges from the building of 
schools, dispensaries, to the construction of culverts. In many 
instances, communities hosting corps members are empowered with 
capital to run businesses. This no doubt, brought a lot of development 
to the various Nigerian societies.  
Similarly, through community development services, the growing rate 
of animosity between Nigerians, particularly after the Civil War years 
are reduced to the lowest ebb. This is because; Corps members who 
come from different states of the federation positively affected the lives 
of their host communities irrespective of their ethnic groups, religions, 
gender or regions. In response, the most stereotyped stories and 
rumours navigating the breadth and length of the nation, especially 
between Northerners and Southerners are either negated or properly 
understood within their respective contexts. For instance, corps 
members serving in Northern Nigeria are always cautioned about the 
fierce and brutal character of the people of the region, which is always 
proven wrong. On the other side, many Northerners are also ill-
informed about the people of the South against whom cannibalism is 
unjustly and erroneously labeled.  
Community development service equally promotes the culture of 
reciprocating goodness and generosity between people. A community 
that benefited from a particular development project for example 
would naturally be accommodative to its philanthropists. Through the 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                        Nadir A. Nasidi 
10 
 
NYSC CDS groups, many a relationship was built between the corps 
members and their host communities many years after the one 
mandatory service year. In such instances, one finds it even difficult 
sometimes to understand the nature of such relationships, which seem 
to have transcended mere friendship to blood-like relations.  
 
Challenges  
Despite the fact that community development plays important roles in 
the transformation of any human society, it however, has a number of 
challenges. These challenges may be social, economic, political, cultural, 
geographical or even ideological. One of the major challenges of 
community development in most communities is lack of proper 
cooperation, especially between the philanthropists and their 
beneficiaries. This is because, one’s religious inclination, or social 
status may serve as a barrier for his goodwill in contributing to the 
development of the people. It would be absurd to many Muslims for 
instance for a Christian philanthropist to build a mosque for them or 
Muslim building a Church for the Christians.  
Moreover, the presence of corrupt officials in a community may also 
mar societal progress as much as community development service is 
concerned. There are many circumstances in which the money set aside 
for community development are either mismanaged or completely 
stolen by such corrupt people. This no doubt is a stumbling block to 
societal development not only in relation to community development, 
but also in terms of leadership. Though some Nigerian communities 
have a number of Community Based Organisations (CBOs) that are 
normally shouldered with the responsibilities of their communities and 
its development, the infiltration of corruption into almost all aspects of 
the Nigerian life poses a serious challenge to community development. 
In some cases, such CBOs are established by selfish individuals so as to 
serve as a money-making industry even at the detriment of the people 
in particular and the nation in general.   
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Community Development Service in Historical Context 
11 
 
The last but not least, the main focus of many developmental projects is 
often lost due to lack of proper knowledge about the basic needs of a 
community. In this regard, one may find an individual or even a 
government misplacing priorities. For example, a community that is 
suffering from water shortages cannot have water-ways as a remedy. In 
view of this therefore, many community developmental projects are 
defeated even before execution and thus, it is one of the challenges of 
community development in Nigeria.  
Though the NYSC CDS scheme is designed to ensure a full delivery of 
community development projects throughout Nigeria, it has not 
completely escaped some of the challenges discussed. That is why the 
level of success recorded in terms of projects executed by corps 
members in different communities and geographical location, also 
differs. Despite this challenge however, the CDS scheme contributed 
immensely to community development at various levels.  
 
Conclusion 
This paper attempted an overview of community development service 
in historical context. Though Community Development as a term has no 
universally accepted definition, an effort is made to conceptualise it, at 
least, within the context of the Nigerian experience with particular 
reference to the NYSC/CDS scheme. It is also argued that community 
development service is an old African tradition mainly to promote the 
spirit of self-help and philanthropy. 
The paper also threw a little new light into the major roles of 
community development. Among these contributions are; the 
promotion of self-help, the abolition of animosity in the hearts of two or 
more contending factions, the socio-economic and political 
development of communities, among other important roles. On the 
contrary, the paper also examined some of the major challenges of 
community development in most societies across the globe, but layed 
emphasis on the Nigerian condition. Some of these challenges are; 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                        Nadir A. Nasidi 
12 
 
corruption, misplacement of priorities, religious cultural barriers, to 
mention, but three. The paper concludes by stating that despite the 
challenges associated with community development service in most 
Nigerian communities, it contributed immeasurably to the socio-
economic and political development of the people.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Community Development Service in Historical Context 
13 
 
Bibliography 
Abuiyada R., ‘Traditional Development Theories have Failed with 
Reference to GAD’, International Journal of Business and Social 
Science, 9.9, (2008).  
Chan, C.G. and Elder, G.H., ‘Family Influences on the Social Participation 
of Youth: The Effects of Parental Social Involvement and Farming’, 
Rural Sociology, 66.1, (2001): 22-42.  
Enemou, F.C., ‘Youth Mobilisation for Nation-Building: The Case of the 
National Youth Service Corps Scheme in Nigeria’, A Paper 
prepared for the Ford Foundation Workshop in Youth 
Involvement as a Strategy for Social, Economic and Democratic 
Development, Costa Rica, 2001.  
Fletcher, A.C., Elder, G.H. AND Mekos, D., ‘Parental Influences on 
Adolescent Involvement in Community Activities’, Journal of 
Research on Adolescence, 10 (2000):  29-48. 
Friedman, J., Empowerment: The Politics of Alternative Development. 
Oxford: Oxford Blackwell Press, 1980. 
Manyerere, D., ‘The Role of Youth Volunteerism in the Achievement of 
Local Development Initiatives in Iringa Region, Tanzania’, 
Tanzania Journal of Development Studies, 17.1, (2019): 82. 
Menon, N., Moore A. and Sherraden, M., ‘Understanding Service: Words 
in the Context of History and Culture. Washington: Centre for Social 
Development Global Service Institute,2002.  
Nasidi, N.A., ‘Exploring the Dimensions of Secessionist Agitations: 
Security Threats and Implications for Nigeria 1966-2016’, in 
Defence, Security, Economy and Development in Nigeria, Vol. 
2.London: Bahiti and Dalila Publishers,2017, 289-304. 
Nasidi, N.A., ‘Religious Diversity and Peaceful Co-existence on the 
Mambilla Plateau: A Lesson for the Nigerian State’. In Osakwe, C.C., 
Leadership and Complex Military Operations.Kaduna: Centre for the 
Study of Leadership and Complex Military Operations, Nigerian 
Defense Academy, 2015, 564-573. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                        Nadir A. Nasidi 
14 
 
 NYSC,12 Years of National Youth Service in Nigeria: 1973-1985.Lagos: 
NYSC Directorate, 1985. 
 NYSC,A Compendium of the National Youth Service Corps Scheme: Ten 
Years of Service to the Nation. Lagos: NYSC Directorate, 1983. 
NYSC,Community Development Service.Lagos: NYSC Directorate,1984. 
NYSC, Decree and Amendments. No. 28 Vol. 60, May 23rd, Part A, 1973. 
 NYSC, NYSC Handbook. Lagos: NYSC Directorate, 1974. 
NYSC, The Integrator: Annual Publication of NYSC Scheme. Imo State: 
NYSC,1989. 
Onwere C., ‘National Youth Service Corps Programme and National 
Integration in Nigeria’, (Unpublished PhD Thesis, Department of 
International and Comparative Education, University of 
London,1992). 
 Parke, R.D. and Ladd, G.N. (Eds.), Family-Peer Relationships: Modes of 
Linkages.U.S.A: Routledge,2016. 
Patel, L. and Wilson, T., ‘Civic Service in Sub-Saharan Africa’, Non-Profit 
and Voluntary Sector Quarterly, 33.4,(2014). 
Pearson, R., ‘Rethinking Gender Matters in Development’, in Allen, T. 
and Thomas, A. (Eds.). Poverty and Development into the 21st 
Century. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2008.  
Rabie M., A Theory of Sustainable Socio-Cultural and Economic 
Development, Unpublished Paper, 2016. 
Soares J. and Quintella R., ‘Development: An Analysis of Concepts, 
Measurement and Indicators’, Brazilian Administration Review, 
5.2 (2008)  
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Community Development Service in Nigeria 
15 
 
 22 22    
    NYSC and Community Development Service in 
Nigeria 
 
 
Rachel Sochi Ogbonna 
 
 
Introduction 
The effort of eradicating poverty and the quest of attaining standard 
means of livelihood is the major objective of every government; as 
every government desires a developed nation.1 Development is a vital 
requisite to the growth and sustenance of any vibrant nation and in 
order to maintain the requisite level of growth across board. 
                                                           1Samuel Z. Bonye, Arkum Thaddeus, AasoglenangEbenezer Owusu-Sekyere. 
“Community development in Ghana: theory and practice.” European Scientific 
Journal 9, no.17 (June 2013) 79.79–101. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S            Rachel Sochi Ogbonna 
16 
 
Community development is important. Community development as a 
process in Nigeria began during the colonial administration. After the 
Second World War, the British Colonial Office became concerned with 
community development in order to increase the rate of economic 
buoyance in the colonies.2 Community development process and 
practices therefore entails the inclusion and participation of different 
interest groups, stakeholders and actors including the people whose 
livelihood projects are geared at improving, government and non-
governmental bodies, funding organisations, project experts and 
executors.3  
The Community Development Service (CDS) of the National Youth 
Service Corps (NYSC) is one of the four cardinal points of the scheme. 
This study attempts to discuss NYSC and community development 
service in Nigeria. Community development is vital to the growth and 
development of any vibrant nation. Over the years, efforts have 
continued to be made by the government in terms community 
development services across the nation, and are evident in the 
continuous growth and development of communities. One of such 
efforts to entrench community development in the nation was its 
inculcation in the NYSC scheme in 1973. This chapter adopts the use of 
primary sources in form of archival materials of official government 
gazette; and, secondary data were also used to corroborate these 
sources of information. The study adopted documentary analyses to 
arrive at the conclusion that the community development programme 
of the NYSC is indeed very well-articulated and has been serving its 
purposes despite challenges. The focus is on the origin of the 
                                                           2Smith, M. K.  “What is community development.”The encyclopedia of informal 
education.Accessed January 25, 2021, http://infed.org/mobi/what-is-community-
development/. 3Akande, J. O.  “Community Development in Nigeria: Historical Account and 
Lessons from the Defects of the Past.”Journal of Agriculture and Rural 
Development 5, no.1 (2010). 62.  61-72. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Community Development Service in Nigeria 
17 
 
community development services of the NYSC, how it is carried out and 
its impact on the host communities. 
 
Community Development Service in the NYSC 
The NYSC, having been established in 1973 by the then General Yakubu 
Gowon regime, in furtherance to the Federal Government’s post-war 
policy of Reconstruction, Reconciliation and Rehabilitation, has 
community development as a principal part of its activities. The aim of 
the NYSC was to recalibrate a new generation of Nigerians who were 
detribalized, disciplined and patriotic and had developed common ties 
within the Nigerian state. They were to be posted outside their states of 
origin where they would serve in new communities and gain 
employment; to promote national unity and integrity. The stipulated 
objectives of the scheme as contained in the Act are: 
a.  to inculcate discipline in Nigerian youths by instilling in 
them a tradition of industry at work and of patriotic and 
loyal service to Nigeria in any situation they may find 
themselves;  
b. to raise the moral tone of the Nigerian youths by giving 
them the opportunity to learn about higher ideals of 
national achievements and social and cultural 
improvement; to develop in Nigerian youths the attitudes of 
mind, acquired through shared experience and suitable 
training, which will make them more amenable to 
mobilization in the national interest; 
c.  to enable Nigerian youths acquire the spirit of self-
resilience by encouraging them to develop skills for self-
employment; to contribute to the accelerated growth of the 
national economy; to develop common ties among the 
Nigerian Youths and promote national unity and 
integration; to encourage members of the service corps to 
seek, at the end of their corps service, career employment 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S            Rachel Sochi Ogbonna 
18 
 
all over the country thus promoting the free movement of 
labour;  
d. to enable Nigerian youths to acquire the spirit of self-
reliance.4 
All these objectives will aid in removing prejudices, eliminating 
ignorance and make bare the many similarities among Nigerians of all 
ethnic groups, and herald a sense of corporate existence and common 
destiny of the people of Nigeria. These objectives of the NYSC are 
pursued through the four Cardinal programmes of the Scheme, namely: 
Orientation Course, Primary Assignment, Community Development 
Service and Winding-up/ Passing-out Programme. In assessing NYSC 
vis-à-vis its community development service in the nation, our 
concentration in this chapter will be on the scheme’s third cardinal 
programme; Community Development Service.   
The community development service programmes of the NYSC runs 
alongside with the primary assignment. It is a platform for corps 
members to initiate and execute projects aimed at improving the living 
standards of their host communities. Some of these projects include; 
the construction and renovation of culverts and bridges, removal of 
waste materials, and other basic infrastructures; awareness campaigns 
on vital issues in the society such as, voters education, campaigns for 
proper sanitation etc.; educational projects; medical outreaches 
especially in remote villages, among other varying issues .  In addition, 
the scheme is into diverse forms of community development service 
collaborations with the Government, Non-Governmental Organizations, 
International Organizations and other well-meaning Nigerians. 5 
                                                           4 This can be found in the National Archives, Kaduna. File No. 
CSA/OFF/148.Office of the Secretary to the Interim Common Services 
Agency.National Youth Service Corps.Accessed 16/02/2021 5 National Youth Service Corps, ABC of Community Development Service,  (Abuja, 
Nigeria:NYSC.May 2015), 2. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Community Development Service in Nigeria 
19 
 
Through, the community development programme, members of the 
service corps work with the local communities to promote self-reliance 
by systematically prospecting and executing development projects and 
programmes which impact positively on the socioeconomic 
development of the host communities. Thus, over the years, the 
community development service programme has metamorphosed to a 
department in the NYSC whose vision and mission are; to galvanise the 
great potentials of the Nigerian youths and generate community 
interest towards national development and to enhance the living 
standard of host communities at all times. Therefore, the ultimate goal 
of the community development service of the NYSC is to improve the 
economic, health, political and socio-cultural conditions of host 
communities towards sustainable development.6  
 
The Objectives of Community Development Service under the 
NYSC Scheme 
The overarching goal of every Community Development project of the 
NYSC is to contribute to the welfare of the society, to leave a mark of 
honour and a legacy worthy of emulation behind. Thus, its impact is felt 
by the Community, the corps members and all other individuals who 
come across such projects. 
The objectives of the CDS as stipulated by the NYSC are both 
community developmental and human capacity building oriented in 
nature. These objectives are: impacting positively on the improvement 
of rural community life; developing the spirit of  self-reliance in the 
corps members; inculcating in the Nigerian Youth the ideals and 
capacities for leadership, endurance, selflessness, community service, 
national service, patriotism and creativity by utilizing the challenges 
posed by rural development; exposing corps members to diverse 
                                                           6Nysc.gov.ng Editors.“Community Development Service and Special Projects 
Department.”NYSC Official Website.Accessed 16/02/2021. 
https://www.nysc.gov.ng/cds.html. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S            Rachel Sochi Ogbonna 
20 
 
traditions and customs of their host communities; providing the forum 
for corps members to experiment with ideas and translate them into 
concrete achievements thereby relying less on foreign technology and 
encouraging the use of local raw materials in the execution of projects; 
harnessing the enormous energy, talents and skills of corps members 
into an effective machinery of change in our rural communities; 
providing on-the job-training, skill sets and experience for corps 
members; providing complementary service in our National 
development activities, by ensuring that our underprivileged 
population learn basic techniques for self-help through the appropriate 
technology concept being promoted by NYSC; to instil in corps 
members the tradition of dignity of labour and productivity; to 
complement the activities of government at all levels in the stride 
towards national development.7 
 
Classifications of Community Development Service under the NYSC 
Community Development Service (CDS) under the NYSC is classified 
into three main groups: The Group Community Development Service; 
the Personal/ Individual Community Development Service; and the 
Collaborative Community Development Service. The Group Community 
Development Service (Group CDS) has been made compulsory for corps 
members.8 It is carried out once in a week by corps members in their 
various NYSC local government secretariats. On the selected week day, 
they are not expected to attend duties in their places of their primary 
assignment; rather, they converge in their assigned CDS groups to 
execute projects and programmes that will improve the living 
conditions of their host communities. There are over fifteen Group CDS 
                                                           7National Archives, Kaduna (NAK)File No. CSA/OFF/148.Office of the Secretary 
to the Interim Common Services Agency.National Youth Service Corps. Accessed 
16/02/2021 8National Youth Service Corps, ABC of Community Development Service,  (Abuja, 
Nigeria: NYSC. May 2015), 2. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Community Development Service in Nigeria 
21 
 
under the NYSC and the number continues to grow in relation to the 
challenge that needs to be solved in the society.9 
Some Group CDS include; the NYSC Sports and Cultural CDS, which has 
an annual programme aimed at encouraging the development of the 
spirit of sportsmanship and building healthy competition among corps 
members as well as the appreciation and promotion of their host 
communities’ values and culture; the SDGs CDS, which trains 
volunteers in line with the sustainable development goals of the United 
Nations. These corps members thus become saddled with the 
responsibility of carrying out community developmental projects in 
their host communities in tandem with the 17 sustainable development 
goals of the United Nations; the Medical and Health Services which 
enlightens members of host communities about health related issues 
and carries out projects that guarantees the health and wellbeing of 
members of host communities. Other Group CDS includes; Editorial and 
Publicity, the Red Cross; Anti-Corruption Group; Legal Aid, among 
several others. 
The Personal/ Individual Community Development Service 
(Personal/Individual CDS) are projects executed by individual corps 
members in their host communities based on community felt-needs. 
Corps members are encouraged in addition to the Group CDS to look 
out for areas where they could individually make impact in their host 
communities. It could be on construction projects like building of 
incinerators, bridges, classroom blocks, laboratory facilities for schools 
etc. States/FCT Coordinators encourage corps members to embark on 
personal CDS projects as these further buttresses and equips the corps 
members with the spirit of self-reliance which is an objective of the 
scheme.10 
                                                           9ABC of Community Development Service…2015 10ABC of Community Development Service…2015 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S            Rachel Sochi Ogbonna 
22 
 
The Collaborative Community Development Service is characterized by 
projects in partnership with the National and Non-Governmental 
Organisations and other establishments to implement development 
programmes. In this classification of CDS, the NYSC signs Memorandum 
of Understanding (MoU) with the partners, clearly stating each 
partner’s roles and responsibilities, while the Corps members are 
involved as Volunteers. Examples of the collaborative CDS include: 
NYSC/NEMA partnership on sensitisation and training of corps 
members as Emergency Vanguards; NYSC/Federal Ministry of 
Environment partnership on planting of one (1) million trees every 
year; NYSC/NDLEA partnership on training of corps members, 
sensitisation campaigns and the formation of clubs to promote a drug-
free society. The NYSC also collaborates with several agencies and 
organisations to render useful and rewarding services to host 
communities through corps members.  
Some of the organisations which have partnered with the NYSC include: 
Energy Commission of Nigeria (ECN); Voluntary Service Overseas 
(VSO); Mercy Corps Nigeria; National Emergency Management Agency 
(NEMA); United Nations Children Education Funds (UNICEF); National 
Agency for Food and Drugs Administration and Control (NAFDAC); 
National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA); Office of the Senior 
Special Assistant to the President on Sustainable Development Goals 
(OSSAP SDGs); Guardian of the Nations International (GOTNI); National 
Primary Healthcare Development Agency (NPHDA); Mind The Gap (E-
Green); United Nations Millennium Campaign Office (UNMC), among 
several continuously emerging collaborations.11 
 
 
                                                           11ABC of Community Development Service…2015 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Community Development Service in Nigeria 
23 
 
Table 1: Table showing various CDS Groups, Objectives and 
Activities  
S/N CDS Groups Objectives Activities 
1. Corps Legal Aid 
Group 
• Free legal services 
to the 
lessprivileged and 
indigent 
prisoninmates 
(Victims of denials 
and violation of 
rights). 
• Sensitization of the 
public 
onfundamental 
human rights 
• Advocacy 
• Visit to prisons 
• Legal service 
to inmates and 
indigent 
persons 
• Public lecture 
and awareness 
on 
fundamental 
human rights 
2. Sports Group • Create avenue for 
recreation and 
healthy rivalry 
among Corps 
Members and the 
community. 
• Awaken the 
consciousness 
ofliving healthy 
and purpose 
fullifestyles 
through 
participation in 
one form of 
physical activity or 
the other 
• Identify talents 
among Corps 
Members 
• Participation 
in Sports 
competitions 
• Identifying 
and Training 
members of 
the 
Community on 
sporting 
activities 
• Organizing 
various Sports 
Competitions 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S            Rachel Sochi Ogbonna 
24 
 
3. Cultural and 
Tourism Group 
(Band, Dance, 
Drama & 
Tourism) 
• Promote arts and 
Culture 
• Dissemination of 
vital socio-
economic and 
political problems 
and prospects 
through 
entertainment. 
• Identifying 
talents 
• Entertainment 
• Setting up of 
the Schemes 
theatre groups 
4. Education 
Development 
Group (Mass 
Literacy, Adult 
Education, 
Extra Murals, 
ICT) 
• Enhance the 
educational 
standard of the 
host community 
• Career guidance 
and counseling for 
students 
• Campaign 
against 
illiteracy 
• Organizing 
extra-
muralclasses 
for adults 
• Organizing of 
in-school 
programmes 
5. Environmental 
Protection and 
Sanitation 
Group (Eco 
vanguard, 
NESREA) 
• To promote and 
sustainhealthy 
environment 
• To create 
awareness on 
sustainable 
environment 
management and 
regeneration 
• Tree planting 
• Sanitation 
• Drainage 
Control 
• Erosion 
Control 
• Reforestation 
• Landscaping 
6. Editorial/ 
Publicity 
Group 
• Complement the 
activities of the 
NYSC Public 
Relations Unit 
indisseminating 
Information tothe 
Community 
• Making 
presentation 
onmass media 
to enlighten 
people on 
activities of 
the NYSC and 
socio-cultural 
education. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Community Development Service in Nigeria 
25 
 
7. Road Safety • To contribute to 
public safetyon our 
roads 
 
 
• Sensitization 
and controlof 
traffic 
• Rendering first 
aid to accident 
victims 
• Establishment 
of roadsafety 
clubs in 
schools 
8. Reproductive 
Health & HIV/ 
AIDS Group 
• To train and 
mentor Students 
• To mobilize and 
strengthen 
community based 
responseson 
HIV/AIDS 
prevention 
 
• Sensitization 
and Campaign 
9. Anti-
Corruption 
Group (EFCC & 
ICPC) 
• To help in 
eradicating 
corruption through 
awareness 
campaign 
• Sensitization 
• Creation of 
awareness in 
schools and 
organizations 
• Establish Anti-
Corruption 
groups or 
clubs in 
schools 
10. Service 
Delivery Group 
(Attitudinal 
Change, Re 
Branding) 
• Sensitization on 
Servicedelivery 
and good work 
ethics 
• Training 
• Sensitization 
• Group 
discussions 
onvalue re-
orientation 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S            Rachel Sochi Ogbonna 
26 
 
11. SDGs • To create 
awareness 
andactualize the 
goals of SDGs 
• Advocacy and 
Mentoringof 
the host 
Community 
• Implementing 
SDGs-driven 
projects 
12. Drug Free and 
Quality Control 
Group (NDLEA, 
NAFDAC, SON) 
• Eradication of fake 
and adulterated 
foods and drugs 
• Create awareness 
on danger and 
consequences 
ofdrug abuse. 
• Establishment 
of drugfree 
clubs in 
Schools 
• Ensuring 
linkages 
withthe host 
Communities 
13. Agro-Allied 
Group 
• Support agro allied 
activitiesin host 
communities 
• To promote better 
food production 
and security 
• Demonstration 
farms/Extensi
on Services 
• Establishment 
of Farmers 
Cooperative 
Societies 
• Advocacy  
• Teaching of 
new farming 
techniques 
tocommunities 
14. Charity 
Services 
and Gender 
Group 
• To improve the 
living standardof 
the down trodden. 
• Charity outreaches 
to thepublic 
• Mobilize funds 
and other 
resources for 
lessprivileged 
• Visits to 
orphanages & 
prisons 
• Donation of 
materials to 
homes 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Community Development Service in Nigeria 
27 
 
15. Disaster 
Management 
Group (NEMA) 
• To create 
awareness 
ondisaster 
management 
• To disseminate 
information onhow 
to manage 
disastersthrough 
Corps Emergency 
Vanguards. 
• Public 
enlightenment 
on disaster 
management 
andcontrol 
through the 
emergency 
Vanguards 
• Disaster 
management 
• Liaison with 
NEMA on how 
to assist 
during 
emergencies 
• Formation of 
emergency 
vanguard club 
in schools. 
16. Medical and 
Health Services 
Group (Red 
Cross, Breast 
Without Spot, 
Polio Plus) 
• Promotion and 
provision 
ofMedical Services 
• Medical 
outreach 
• First Aid 
administration 
• Establishment 
of Community 
based clinics 
• Setting up and 
managing 
activities of 
clinic for the 
NYSC 
Secretariat 
 
Table Showing CDS Groups, Objectives and Activities 
Source: NYSC (2016) 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S            Rachel Sochi Ogbonna 
28 
 
Strategies Employed by the NYSC in Carrying out its Community 
Development Service 
The steps used by the NYSC to ensure that all community development 
projects are well articulated and carried out by corps members for the 
benefit of their host communities consist of the use of professional 
project management skills such as; community entry; identification of 
projects through needs assessment; project/programme selection; 
programme or project approval; mobilisation of funds and materials; 
project execution; and, project commissioning and handing over to the 
community. 
 
i. Community Entry: This is the identification and 
engagement of the stakeholders in the host community. 
These stakeholders range from the traditional leaders of the 
community, religious leaders, youth leaders, women 
leaders, opinion leaders, and other key stakeholders as the 
case may be. During community entry, there must be 
proper interaction with the host community in order to 
jointly identify projects based on the felt needs of the 
community. In conjunction with the local government 
inspector and zonal inspector, the corps member is also 
expected to build preliminary opinion and support base for 
the project through sensitization and advocacy for the 
community head/village head; Youth leaders, opinion 
leader; school principal; Non-Governmental Organisations 
(NGOs) Community Based Organisations (CBOs) 
Community Development Agencies (CDAs) and FBOs; and 
public spirited individuals. Also, consents where possible 
will have to be obtained from community leaders for the 
site and execution of projects. Community entry is the point 
of familiarization to make all these possible. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Community Development Service in Nigeria 
29 
 
ii. Identification of Projects through Needs Assessment: 
The two basic techniques for carrying out needs assessment 
for an appropriate community development project is by 
observing the challenges faced by the host community. For 
instance, lack of potable water, medical facility, educational 
institution, link road or bridge or prevalence of common 
diseases, illiteracy, non-basic skills, ignorance, or drug 
abuse can be a challenge faced by the community. Through 
discussions with members of the community ranging from 
youths, market women, opinion leaders and elders at the 
community entry stage, these challenges may be identified. 
And to ensure that the challenge identified is of foremost 
importance to the community, discussions of project 
proposal or what the community wants to be done for it is 
carried out.  
 
iii. Project/Programme Selection: The factors that guide the 
choice of community development projects in the NYSC are 
measured through the SMART test of project management 
and the felt-needs of the community.  In the SMART test, 
projects must be Specific (defined), Measurable (visible 
outcome when completed), Achievable (Possible to 
execute), rewarding (benefits when completed) and Time-
bound (deadline for completion). The felt-needs of the 
community ensures that the community is put first in any 
project to be carried out. Carrying out a community 
development project that is not the felt-needs of the 
community amounts to a futile and meaningless effort as 
such projects mostly end up poorly managed or not being 
utilised in totality. For these reasons, needs-assessments 
must be carried out first. 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S            Rachel Sochi Ogbonna 
30 
 
iv. Programme/Project Approval: For a proposed CDS 
project to be approved under the NYSC, a written proposal, 
with the relevance of the project clearly stated, must be 
forwarded by the corps member addressed to the NYSC 
state coordinator through the local and zonal inspectors. 
Also, sustainability and benefits of the project to the 
community on the long-run must be stated. The location 
and accessibility of the project is important as projects to be 
executed by corps members should not be in disputed areas 
and should be accessible to members of the host 
community.  Also, all proposed projects approved must be 
completed within the service year.  
 
v. Mobilization of Funds and Resources: Funding of a CDS 
project is the shared responsibility of the host community, 
government and stakeholders who are beneficiaries of such 
projects. On no account is a corps member expected to fund 
community development projects from his/her personal 
money, as doing so would nullify the viability of the project. 
Funds for project execution can be sourced through; 
Corporate organizations; Non-Governmental Organisations 
(NGOs), Philanthropists; Government Agencies; Public 
spirited individuals in the community; political office 
holders/ representatives. Furthermore, there should be a 
comprehensive analysis of income and expenditure of funds 
and other reources received with receipts attached. This is 
done for the purpose of accountability. Mobilization of 
resources should not be done in isolation but in conjunction 
with community members and other relevant stakeholders. 
 
vi. Project Execution: After the above steps have been carried 
out, the corps member can begin the execution of the 
project within the time frame expected.  During the 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Community Development Service in Nigeria 
31 
 
execution of the project, corps members are expected to 
submit progress report with documentary/pictorial 
evidence bimonthly until the project reaches completion. 
Once a project is completed, a Completion Report is to be 
submitted to the NYSC State Secretariat. 
 
vii. Commissioning and handing over to the Community: 
Community development projects of corps members are 
commissioned by their local government inspector or State 
Coordinator.  Giving of feedback to persons that donated 
towards the execution of the project is crucial. 
The community participatory approach built into the aforementioned 
steps allows for decision making on projects to be jointly taken which 
ultimately leads to sustainability of such projects and community 
ownership. Thus, making such projects viable to the host community. 
Table 2: Showing the various stages of NYSC and CDS 
TIMELINE ACTIVITY 
Month 1 ORIENTATION CAMP 
Month 2 
PLACEMENT OF CORPS MMEBR ON CDS GROUPS 
AND SETTLING DOWN  
Month 3 DEVELOPMENT AND SUBMISION OF PROPOSALS 
Month 4 DEVELOPMENT AND SUBMISSION OF PROPOSALS 
CONTINUED 
Month 5 
APPROVALS OF PROPOSALS AND PROJECT 
COMMENCEMENT 
Month 6 
SUPERVISION AND MONITORING OF PROJECTS BY 
RELEVANT OFFICERS 
Month 7 
COLLATION AND SUBMISSION OF QURATERLY 
REPORTS  
LATE SUBMISSION OF PROPOSALS AND 
APPROVALS 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S            Rachel Sochi Ogbonna 
32 
 
Month 8 
CONTINUATION OF PROJECT EXECUTION AND 
SUPERVISON BY RELEVANT OFFICERS 
LATE SUBMISSION OF PROPOSALS AND 
APPROVALS 
Month 9 
CONTINUATION OF PROJECT EXECUTION AND 
SUPERVISON BY RELEVANT OFFICERS 
Month 10 
FINAL REPORTS AND INAUGURATION OF PROJECT 
Month 11 
PASSING OUT 
 
Generic Timeline for a CDS Activity of a Corps Member 
Source: NYSC (2015) 
 
Major Achievements of the Community Development Service of 
the NYSC  
Achievements of the NYSC through community development are 
majorly assessed by the number of projects commissioned and the 
impacts such projects have on members of the host community. NYSC 
CDS have been able to increase the participation of young Nigerians in 
community development activities nationwide. In 2015 alone, through 
the programmes of the CDS department in the NYSC, there was training 
and deployment of 5,332 Corps SDGs Advocates in the 36 States and 
FCT (2015 Batch ‘B’ corps members only).12 Training of 376 WAP agro-
entrepreneurs was also done, as well as their empowerment with start-
up capital of between N200,000.00 and N300,000.00 to establish their 
agro-enterprises.  These, among other various training and 
empowerment of corps members have been able to empower them to 
carry out community development projects. 
                                                           12Nysc.gov.ng Editors.“Community Development Service and Special Projects 
Department.”NYSC Official Website.  Accessed 16/02/2021. 
https://www.nysc.gov.ng/cds.html. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Community Development Service in Nigeria 
33 
 
In the aspect of Health and Well-being, Corps members carry out 
medical outreaches, first aid treatments, and establish community 
based clinics. Medical Outreach to the IDP Camp in Howai, Mile 6, 
Jalingo by the NYSC Medical and Health CDS (Batch A and B 2020/21) 
Jalingo, Taraba State.13Medical Outreach by SDGs CDS group 
Gwagwalada, to Ledi II village in Gwagwalada, Abuja. In 2019, there 
was the implementation of a one-week nationwide medical outreach 
under the NYSC Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers (HIRD), a 
programme that engaged corps health personnel with the support of 
other medical personnel in addressing health challenges in the rural 
areas. No fewer than 63,864 persons with various ailments were 
reached across the country during the programme. Sensitization and 
training on Combating Ebola Virus Disease (COMEVID) during the 2015 
Batches ‘A’ and ‘B’ Orientation Course across the country. Over 6,332 
corps members were trained to carry out further sensitization on the 
disease in their various host communities.14Medical CDS group (Batch 
A 2015) at University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital. Francis Okoye who 
served with Millennium Development Group, Offa, Kwara State 
distributed 100 pieces of treated mosquito nets in line with MDGs Goal 
6 (Combat HIV/AIDS, Malaria and other diseases), 400 learning 
materials to selected schools in line with MDG’s Goal 2 (Achieving 
Universal Basic Education) and trained less privilege mothers on skills 
acquisition like baking in line with MDG’s Goal 1 (eradicate extreme 
poverty and hunger) in 2012.15 Other projects that encourage 
community members to earn income from local production, self-
reliance, enhance standard of education and even political awareness 
                                                           13Medical &  Health CDS Group, Taraba State. 
https://www.twitter.com/HealthCds/ Published 07/02/2021 14Nysc.gov.ng Editors.“Community Development Service and Special Projects 
Department.”NYSC Official Website.  Accessed 16/02/2021. 
https://www.nysc.gov.ng/cds.html. 15Abdullahi, Muhammad &Ehiyamen, Osezua& Cheri, Lawan&Chikaji, Aliyu. 
Analysis Of The Implementation Of Community Development Service Projects Of 
National Youth Service Corps: Channels And Hindrances. Volume2. (2016). 129 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S            Rachel Sochi Ogbonna 
34 
 
are carried out across the 36 states and capital to promote grassroots 
development. 
Research and development has been equally promoted by the 
facilitation of NYSC partnership with the United Nations Millennium 
Campaign (UNMC) Office through engagement of corps members as 
Enumerators in the 774 local government areas and selected schools 
for the second phase of ‘My World’ Survey across the country. Nigeria is 
leading the poll and is likely to emerge the overall lead in the survey, 
which is centered on development issues. Nigeria’s lead in the largest 
citizen survey in the history of the United Nations is expected to 
translate into greater commitment of both citizens and government in 
implementing the SDGs. Successful partnership with UNICEF on the UN 
U-Report project has also led to the registration of over one million U-
Reporters in Nigeria, the largest number in the world. Though NYSC 
met the target of mobilising one (1) million U-Reporters by August, 
2015, the registration of U-Reporters still continues on the platform.16 
All these progammes in partnership with the NYSC has been able to 
promote research and development in Nigeria. 
The sense of self-fulfillment that comes with adding value to the lives of 
people and communities cannot be over emphasised. Furthermore, the 
immense appreciation shown by communities as well as project 
beneficiaries coupled with the skill acquired in project management are 
of great value to committed corps members who execute CDS projects 
in the course of the scheme. Ultimately, the scheme provides 
opportunity for corps members, based on a procedure of selection, 
evaluation and verification of CDS projects, performance in the place of 
primary assignment, orientation course and winding up activities, to be 
given the following awards; 
 
                                                           16“Community Development Service and Special Projects Department”… 
https://www.nysc.gov.ng/cds.html. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Community Development Service in Nigeria 
35 
 
i. State Coordinator’s letter of commendation 
ii. Local Government HonoursAward 
iii. State government Honours Award 
iv. Presidential HonoursAward 
It is worthy of note to State that through the community development 
activities of the scheme, the NYSC is recognized by development 
partners as a principal organization and a major player on the issue of 
development within communities and across the nation.17The over-
arching goal of every CDS project is to contribute to the welfare of the 
society, to leave a mark of honour and a legacy worthy of emulation 
behind. Therefore, carrying out CDS projects does not translate to 
winning an award. And the scheme is not under compulsion to reward 
you for carrying out a community development project. 
 
Major Challenges Faced by the NYSC in Community Development 
in Nigeria 
NYSC CDS has been faced with numerous challenges arising from poor 
perception and dearth of knowledge of the corps members and 
members of host communities on the objectives of the CDS. 
Implementing CDS project is hindered by several factors including but 
not limited to inadequate encouragement and motivation of corps 
members. 
In 2012, CM Oyediran Igbosanmi Israel in an interview was reported to 
have suffered negative statements by people when he showed interest 
in building a Primary Healthcare Centre at a community in Buruku LGA 
of Benue state. Although he later executed the project to the last, he 
suffered setbacks from people with discouraging comments like “such 
projects are for government”, “you are wasting your time”, “who will 
                                                           17“Community Development Service and Special Projects Department”… 
https://www.nysc.gov.ng/cds.html. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S            Rachel Sochi Ogbonna 
36 
 
give you such amount”.18Due to improper or inadequate 
encouragement by host communities, corps members are not 
encouraged to embark on CDS projects as they spend a lot of time and 
energy trying to carry out majorly their primary assignment and care 
for their selves. Even when projects are of interest to Corps members, 
only NYSC officials are seen encouraging it.  
The bureaucratic processes involved in drafting a proposal, 
determining community’s need, seeking for sponsorship, getting 
approvals, managing resources, etc. discourages corps members from 
partaking in CDS activities because these procedures consume a lot of 
time, energy and monetary resources before they can be accomplished. 
Although, some CDS projects are never forgotten by host communities, 
corps members are not well appreciated. Reward is not the essence of 
carrying out a CDS project, but the benefit of being commended for 
engaging in community development cannot be emphasised. Rewards 
such as recommendation letters will go a long way in making a corps 
member want to continue to carry out community development 
projects even after the scheme. Also, randomly selecting CDS Groups 
for Corps members, without letting them pick their areas of interest or 
specialization leads many to show lackadaisical attitude towards the 
programme. 
 
Conclusion 
The Community Development Service (CDS) of the NYSC is one of the 
four cardinal points of the NYSC. The Scheme is committed to the 
implementation of its constitutionally constituted objectives and has 
equally played complementary roles with other organizations that are 
saddled with the execution of programmes at the heart of community 
                                                           18Abdullahi, Muhammad &Ehiyamen, Osezua& Cheri, Lawan&Chikaji, Aliyu. 
Analysis Of The Implementation Of Community Development Service Projects Of 
National Youth Service Corps: Channels And Hindrances. Volume2.(2016). 128. 
123-136. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Community Development Service in Nigeria 
37 
 
development. Corps members continuously work with the local 
communities to promote self-reliance by systematically prospecting 
and executing development projects which impact positively the 
development of the host communities. 
Since its inception in 1973, the National Youth Service Corps has been 
making great contributions in the social, political and economic 
development of the nation. The scheme has been in the vanguard of the 
Nation’s efforts to level the imbalance in our rural-urban development 
through the various community development programmes executed by 
the corps members.  
 
 
  
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S            Rachel Sochi Ogbonna 
38 
 
Bibliography 
 
Abdullahi, Muhammad &Ehiyamen, Osezua& Cheri, Lawan&Chikaji, 
Aliyu. Analysis of the Implementation of Community 
Development Service Projects Of National Youth Service Corps: 
Channels And Hindrances. Volume2. (2016). 123-136. 
Akande, J. O.  “Community Development in Nigeria: Historical Account 
and Lessons from the Defects of the Past.” Journal of Agriculture 
and Rural Development 5, no.1 (2010).61-72. 
Bonye Z. Samuel, Thaddeus Arkum, Ebenezer Owusu-
SekyereAasoglenang. “Community development in Ghana: 
theory and practice.” European Scientific Journal 9, no.17 (June 
2013) 79–101. 
File No. CSA/OFF/148.Office of the Secretary to the Interim Common 
Services Agency.National Youth Service Corps.National 
Archives, Kaduna. Accessed 16/02/2021 
Medical &  Health CDS Group, Taraba State. 
https://www.twitter.com/HealthCds/ Published 07/02/2021 
National Youth Service Corps, ABC of Community Development Service, 
(Abuja, Nigeria: NYSC. May 2015) 
Nysc.gov.ng Editors.“Community Development Service and Special 
Projects Department.”NYSC Official Website.  Accessed 
16/02/2021. https://www.nysc.gov.ng/cds.html. 
Smith, M. K.  “What is community development.” The encyclopedia of 
informal education.Accessed January 25, 2021, 
http://infed.org/mobi/what-is-community-development/. 
Stephen, K. Opinion: Issues with the 2015 Presidential honours Award. 
Retrieved from The Sheet: http://www.thesheet.ng/opinion 
Willie, O. 08/04/2015. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Community Development in Nigeria: 
39 
 33 33    
    NYSC and Community Development in Nigeria: 
Contributions, Challenges and Prospects 
 
 
Rukayya Maisara Wali 
 
 
Introduction  
National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) was established by Decree No. 24 
of 22 nd May, 1973 in a bid to reconstruct, reconcile and rebuild the 
Nigerian economy after the Civil War. As stated by the decree, NYSC 
was created in order to encourage and develop common ties among 
youths of Nigeria with the sole aim of promoting national unity and 
integration1. However, major problems such as poverty, lack of socio-
religious tolerance, shortage of skilled manpower, inadequate socio-
                                                           1NYSC, Community Development Service (Lagos: NYSC Directorate, 1984). 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S               Rukayya Maisara Wali 
40 
 
economic infrastructural facilities, disunity, necessitated the 
establishment of the NYSC scheme.  
The community development service on the other hand, is no doubt a 
major component of the NYSC through which the corps members work 
in collaboration with local communities to promote self-reliance by 
executing developmental projects in all its manifestations, as well as 
programmes that would contribute to socio-economic and political 
development in Nigeria. Akume et al argue that: 
The CDS (Community Development Service) requires 
that corps members use their acquired skills to provide 
services such as education, healthcare delivery, rural 
infrastructural and community development. 
Agriculture, science and technology and enlightenment 
campaigns for the benefit of their host community…as 
such, ensuring the success of community development 
service imposes on the corps members to wear a spirit 
coated with dedication and enthusiasm irrespective of 
the challenges they might face in so far as they are not 
life-threatening2 .  
 
Akume et al’s proposition can strongly stand simply because the NYSC 
scheme brings together students of all disciplines such as History, 
Medicine, Engineering, Economics, Accounting, Mathematics, ICT, 
Information Technology, among others. In this way therefore, the 
scheme can easily muster the needed manpower in virtually all aspects 
of human life. Meanwhile, the training normally given to the corps 
members would surely compliment their expertise in various fields of 
                                                           2A.T. Akume, M. Solomon, and O.A,Mohammed, ‘Conflict, the NYSC Programme 
and the Question of Policy Relevance in Present Day Nigeria: An Assessment’, in 
D.A Abdurrahman,., I.S., Ogundiya, T. Garba, and I.M. Dankani (eds.), 50 Years of 
Nigeria’s Nationhood: Issues and Challenges for Sustainable Development (Ibadan: 
Crown F. Publishers, 2012), 106.  
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Community Development in Nigeria: 
41 
human endeavor. It is for much the same reason that many states of the 
Nigerian federation rely heavily on the expertise of the corps members 
so as to run their affairs cap in hand.  
This chapter therefore examines the major reasons behind the 
establishment of the NYSC scheme, as well as its relations with 
community development service, particularly within the NYSC scheme 
and beyond. It also examines the major contributions of the 
programme, challenges and prospects. Though NYSC as a scheme relate 
with virtually all government and non-governmental agencies 
throughout Nigeria, an effort would be made to study it as a 
phenomenon with an ever lasting impact not only on the youths, but 
also on the socio-economic and political aspects of the Nigerian state in 
general. 
 
NYSC and Community Development Service 
Youths are one of the central and greatest assets any nation can have. 
They are the future leaders and the greatest investment for the 
development of any country. The extent of the contribution of youths 
and their roles, especially in the society at large is directly linked to the 
development and future of the country. Nigeria’s population for 
instance, is predominantly young with a population of about one 
hundred and forty million3. This is to say that, one third of the whole 
population comprises youths largely between the ages of 10 to 24. The 
recognition of this fact led to the development of the national youth 
policy at both state and federal levels among which is the National 
Youth Service Corps launched in 1973 to promote national unity and 
integration and expose graduates to leadership roles, but with 
particular reference to community development projects. The 
community development service however, is one of the most crucial 
contributions of the NYSC in an attempt to harness skills, creativity, and 
innovation of corps members. The programme obliges the corps 
                                                           3 Please, see records on the Nigerian population census of 2006. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S               Rukayya Maisara Wali 
42 
 
members to identify the needs of their host communities and 
undertake different developmental projects, which is beneficial to their 
host communities4 . It is paramount to reaffirm the significance of 
community development service in harnessing the nation’s economy, 
especially in rural areas of the country5. 
 
Objectives of NYSC/CDS 
The objectives of NYSC/CDS as stated in corps members Community 
Development Service handbook are; 
1. Impacting positively on the improvement of rural community 
life. 
2. Developing entrepreneurship skills in corps members. 
3. Exposing corps members to diverse traditions and customs of 
the host communities. 
4. Harnessing different talents and skills of corps members. 
5. Instilling in corps members the tradition of dignity of labour 
and productivity. 
6. To complement the activities of government at all levels 
towards national development. 
 
Looking at the above mentioned objectives, one would be convinced 
that the CDS is meant to train corps member along philanthropic lines. 
Through this process, many a corps member has carried the same 
training along to their work places throughout their public and private 
life. It has also had positive impact on the socio-economic and political 
life of many Nigerian communities during and after the NYSC CDS 
programme.  
 
 
                                                           4NYSC, Decree and Amendments. No. 28 Vol. 60, May 23rd, Part A, 1973. 5 NYSC, A Compendium of the National Youth Service Corps Scheme: Ten Years of 
Service to the Nation (Lagos: NYSC Directorate, 1983). 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Community Development in Nigeria: 
43 
Classification of NYSC CDS  
The Community Development Service can basically be classified into 
three major categories. This section therefore looks at these three 
broad categories (1) Group Community Development Service (2) 
Personal/Individual Community Service and; (3) Collaborative 
Community Development Service. These three categories would briefly 
be discussed in the following sub-heads.  
 
Group Community Development Service 
This comprises of corps members forming into different groups though 
with various aims and purposes. Here, developmental activities are 
carried out once in a week such as visits to prisons, delivering public 
lectures and awareness on some fundamental human rights that are 
more or less trampled upon by strong individuals at the detriment of 
the weaker ones, campaigns against illiteracy, sanitation, sensitization 
campaigns, to mention, but just a few. This process therefore, ensures 
and improves the living conditions of the host communities. 
 
Individual CDS 
In this category, individual corps members design and anchor a 
number of programmes that have direct bearing on societal or 
communal needs. Corps members observe major problems bedeviling a 
community or engage in discussions to identify the needs of the 
community, especially its youths, community leaders, traders and 
community based organizations (CBOs). For instance, building toilets, 
construction of classrooms, market stalls, primary healthcare, culverts 
and the construction of bridges. Corps members also source their funds 
from other organisations, philanthropists, to positively bring changes 
into the lives of their host communities. 
 
Collaborative CDS 
This last category deals with the creation of partnerships with 
government and non-governmental organisations to implement certain 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S               Rukayya Maisara Wali 
44 
 
development services. Corps members usually serve as volunteers in 
this type of collaborative programme. Major programmes include; Road 
Safety Group, Reproductive Health Group, Anti-Corruption Group, 
Service Delivery Group, Drug Free and Quality Control Group, Medical 
and Health Services Group, among others.  
In all the three categories discussed above, one important thing 
remains constant-an effort geared towards the improvement of the 
human conditions in its various forms and contexts. Though it may be 
personal, group, or collaborative in nature, the corps members and the 
NYSC scheme play an important role in the promotion and 
development of the socio-economic and political life of their host 
communities. It is in this juncture that the following sub-head examines 
the major contributions of Community Development Service to both the 
corps members and their host communities.  
 
Contributions 
Community Development Service executed by corps members has 
resulted in socio-economic development in various communities 
through the establishment of schools, public toilets, building libraries, 
sensitisations, campaigns and public enlightenment carried out in 
many communities on social problems such as corruption, drug abuse, 
especially amongst youths, road safety, medical care, entrepreneurial 
skills, among other important issues. To say that NYSC has contributed 
immensely to the development of the various Nigerian communities is 
no doubt an understatement. In this regard therefore, many scholars 
have written extensively on the unique roles of both the corps 
members and the NYSC scheme to the improvement of the human 
condition in Nigeria6.  
                                                           6Ademowo, Y., ‘NYSC: Exploring the Diversity in the Unity of Nigeria’. Retrieved 
May 6th, 2010 from www.nigerian.newspaper.com/national-youth-service-
corps.htm. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Community Development in Nigeria: 
45 
In the 2012 Batch ‘B’ Orientation Course for instance, the NYSC 
successfully trained 45,000 corps members in various skill areas. 5,404 
specialized in agro-allied skills and 5, 509 in food processing and 
preservation, 8,035 in culture and tourism related skills and 5,062 in 
cosmetology7. ICT had 8, 119, 2,057 acquired skills in construction, 
2,837 in beautification and 2, 425 in education8 . 
Though the contributions of NYSC to national development and 
integration cannot be quantified, it would be summed up in the 
following points: 
1. It facilitates regular and effective distribution of skilled 
manpower throughout the government. 
2. It builds friendly bridges across ethno-linguistic boundaries, 
particularly through sporadic intermarriages. 
3. It promotes values of national unity and development. 
4. It rekindles interest in neglected, but vital areas of national 
development, especially agriculture. 
5. It promotes leadership in youths. The regular and continuous 
participation of corps members in various community 
development services such as census, elections, immunization 
programmes, medical care, and entertainment clubs constantly 
pricks the conscience of the nation to the right course of 
development. 
6. NYSC has contributed to the educational development of the 
country, especially from junior secondary and tertiary levels. 
7. Community development programme introduced in 1976/1977 
has helped a lot in promoting learning, tourism, healthcare and 
agricultural development. In the 2012 Batch ‘B’ orientation 
                                                           7A.A., Aba, ‘Nigerian Politics, 1999-2009: Images from Chinua Achebe’s Mirror’, 
in Joseph, M. and Terhemba, W. (eds.), The Press and Literature in the Fourth 
Republic, (Makurdi: Aboki Publishers), 133-147.  8Uomwen, D., ‘Tackling NYSC’s Security Challenge’, 
http://www.pmnewsnigeria.com/2012/10/tackling-nysc-security-
challenge/.Retrieved on 1st May, 2014. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S               Rukayya Maisara Wali 
46 
 
course for instance, 45,000 corps members were trained in 
various skill areas.  
 
Challenges  
Any successful programme no matter how good it is can never be 
devoid of problems and challenges (both intrinsic and extrinsic). On 
this basis therefore, since the NYSC and its CDS programme are not 
watertight, there are some challenges. In recent years, Nigeria has been 
battling with insecurity the peak of which is Boko-Haram insurgency 
and terrorism, which has displaced a lot of Nigerians, especially in the 
Northeastern part of the country. Thousands of people were killed, 
wounded, or displaced. This also coupled with the destruction of 
properties worth Billions of Naira9. Amidst all this, the NYSC 
programme is seriously affected in many ways. For example, an 
attempt to protect the lives of corps members, the three weeks 
camping used for their orientation, training and drilling are completely 
secured after which some would redeploy to other states to complete 
the service year, it also created inconvenience on the side of the 
government and the NYSC. This was more pronounced in the affected 
areas such as Borno, Yobe, and Adamawa states. When examined 
closely, it would be discovered that the operation of the NYSC 
programme was affected in some states conflicts during the most 
turbulent periods (from 2012-2016). This also coupled with a number 
of reported skirmishes and ethno-religious conflicts and post-election 
violence in some parts of Nigeria such as Wukari, Ibbi, and Southern 
Kaduna, to mention a few.  
                                                           9 For details on Boko-Haram and the destruction of the Nigerian state, please, see 
the following; Abba, A., ‘The Disappointing Hour: A Review of My Transition 
Hour by Dr. Goodluck Ebele Jonathan’ (Department of History: Ahmadu Bello 
University, Zaria, 2019), 9, Aondoawase, S. J., ‘Combating Terrorism in the 
Contemporary Society’ (SOHA Production Ltd, 2015), Attah, B., ‘Join the 
Caravan: The Ideology of Political Authority in Islam from IbnTaymiyya to Boko 
Haram in North-Eastern Nigeria’, Perspectives in Terrorism, 7 (3) (2013): 30-43. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Community Development in Nigeria: 
47 
Still on the security issue, the growing rate of banditry and kidnapping 
in many Northern states has also created additional security challenges 
not only to the NYSC scheme, but also to the peaceful coexistence of the 
people in the areas. For this reason, many parents became mindful of 
sending their children for the one year NYSC service programme. 
Invariably, most corps members refused to serve in the states they 
were posted to and hence, the rising number of those demanding 
relocations either to their hometowns, or to their neighbouring states. 
The growing concern of parents in this regard is directly linked to the 
fear of kidnapping and its attendant repercussions. This problem has 
also affected the smooth-running of the NYSC scheme, let alone its CDS 
programme as the central focus of this chapter.  
The onset of the Corona Virus as a global pandemic is another serious 
blow to the NYSC scheme. This is because, the deadly nature of the 
virus particularly in terms of rapid spread made it mandatory for 
governments world-wide to adopt the famous policy of lockdown and 
social distancing. To ensure a quick response to tackling the virus even 
after locking their countries, governments also ordered for the closure 
of all gathering including schools, public and private offices, markets, 
sport complexes, clubs, to mention, but just a few.  
All programmes demanding direct physical contact like the NYSC were 
equally put on hold temporarily. Throughout the period of the 
lockdown, corps members were asked to stay at home and observe all 
the measures for combating the Corona Virus such social distancing, 
washing of hands with soap and sanitizers, wearing of face masks, 
among the most important strategies. The implication was that all 
important activities imbued in the NYSC scheme such as PPA (working 
at their Place of Primary Assignment), monthly clearance, and 
Community Development Service (CDS) were put on hold until the 
situation improved. Thus, this is not only the biggest challenge the 
NYSC has faced, but also the most trying period of its history with a lot 
of lessons to learn, especially that geared towards the promotion of and 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S               Rukayya Maisara Wali 
48 
 
development of the programme in the future. Some of the challenges 
posed by the Corona Virus also brought out to the government the need 
to reinvest in some aspects of the NYSC such as camp facilities, 
equipment, as well as the re-evaluation of the scheme. 
Part of the major consequences of the lockdown period was inflation, 
growth of crimes, and redundancy as many businesses collapsed. In 
view of this therefore, the government has to place a lot of effort in 
resuscitating the national economy. In the recommendation part of this 
chapter, this issue is extensively discussed. Like every ministry, or 
agency the NYSC scheme has to be given a special attention so as to 
enhance on its mandate of fostering national integration and mutual 
respect amongst Nigerians. One would argue that supposing there is no 
programme like NYSC in Nigeria, the emergence of many socio-political 
and economic problems bedevilling the nation to the extent of 
polarizing if not breaking it, there would be a serious, but urgent need 
to introduce one. For those who are acquainted with the historical 
development of the Nigerian state the role played by the NYSC scheme 
in the promotion of peace and national integration cannot be over 
emphasized. For this reasons therefore, the government must pay a 
special attention to it by improving the programme, enhancing the 
financial welfare of its workers, equipping them with state of the art 
paraphernalia so as to discharge their duties smoothly and efficiently.  
 
Prospects 
Based on the above discussion, this chapter also sees possibilities 
through which the NYSC scheme can be improved positively, 
specifically based on results on the CDS. The following are some of the 
prospects of the scheme: 
1. There is increasing need for progressive re-organization of the 
NYSC in this era of multiple security crises.  
2. Improved welfare package-funds should be made available for 
individual and group projects. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Community Development in Nigeria: 
49 
3. Security of lives and properties must be guaranteed to ascertain 
the willingness of graduates to participate in the scheme. 
4. Adequate monitoring and evaluation should be put in place in 
order to ensure funds are properly utilised. 
5. Commitment of the scheme’s management and proper guidance 
of corps members, as well as availability of operational facilities 
and logistics.  
6. corrupt officials should be punished so as to serve as a 
deterrent to other corrupt officials.  
 
Conclusion  
This chapter discussed extensively on the role of NYSC in community 
development service in Nigeria. Part of the contribution of the NYSC 
scheme are; (1) promotion of effective skilled manpower (2) breaking 
of socio-cultural barriers (3) building of bridges across ethno-religious 
groups in Nigeria (4) promotion of values and national unity and (5) 
the development of leadership qualities among Nigerian youths. 
Though the NYSC scheme plays an important role in the socio-
economic and political development of the Nigerian state, it 
experiences a number of challenges among which are; the growing rate 
of corruption, inadequate sensitisation of the public on NYSC CDS 
operation/functions, lack of adequate funds for CDS projects or 
programmes, poor funding of the scheme, to mention a few. Despite 
these problems, this chapter seems to have provided some possible 
solutions to ameliorate them.  
Some of the solutions to the challenges of the NYSC scheme as the 
chapter proposes are; the need for an increased, but progressive 
reorganization of the NYSC scheme, the improvement of welfare 
package, enhancement of security apparatus, and the establishment of 
functional mechanism for monitoring and evaluation. The chapter 
concludes that despite the challenges associated with the NYSC scheme, 
its contributions, particularly in the promotion of national unity and 
integration cannot be over-emphasized.  
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S               Rukayya Maisara Wali 
50 
 
Bibliography 
 
Aba, A.A., ‘Nigerian Politics, 1999-2009: Images from Chinua Achebe’s 
Mirror’, in Joseph, M. and Terhemba, W. (eds.), The Press and 
Literature in the Fourth Republic, (Makurdi: Aboki Publishers), 
133-147.  
Abba, A., ‘The Disappointing Hour: A Review of My Transition Hour by 
Dr. Goodluck Ebele Jonathan’ (Department of History: Ahmadu 
Bello University, Zaria, 2019). 
Ademowo, Y., ‘NYSC: Exploring the Diversity in the Unity of Nigeria’. 
Retrieved May 6th, 2010 from 
www.nigerian.newspaper.com/national-youth-service-
corps.htm. 
Akume, A.T., Solomon, M. and Mohammed, O.A,’ Conflict, the NYSC 
Programme and the Question of Policy Relevance in Present 
Day Nigeria: An Assessment’, in Abdurrahman, D.A., Ogundiya, 
I.S., Garba, T. and Dankani, I.M. (eds.), 50 Years of Nigeria’s 
Nationhood: Issues and Challenges for Sustainable Development 
(Ibadan: Crown F. Publishers, 2012), 106.  
Aondoawase, S. J., ‘Combating Terrorism in the Contemporary Society’ 
(SOHA Production Ltd, 2015). 
Attah, B., ‘Join the Caravan: The Ideology of Political Authority in Islam 
from Ibn Taymiyya to Boko Haram in North-Eastern Nigeria’, 
Perspectives in Terrorism, 7 (3) (2013). 
Bazza, M. B., Boko Haram Terrorism: my personal story as a victim 
(Nigeria: Atrik Ventures Limited, 2014). 
Brinkel, T. and Ait-Hida, S., ‘Boko Haram and Jihad in Nigeria’, 
ScientiaMilitaria, South African Journal of Military Studies, 40(2) 
(2012). 
Chukwura, D. C. at al, ‘Implication of Boko Haram Terrorism on 
Northern Nigeria’, Mediterranean Journal of Social Sciences,6 (3) 
(2015). 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and Community Development in Nigeria: 
51 
Comolli, V., Boko Haram: Nigeria’s Islamist Insurgency (U.S.A:Hurst & 
Company, 2017). 
Davis, J., Africa and the War on Terrorism (Ashgate Publishing Limited, 
2007). 
Ebiam, O., Nigeria, Biafra and Boko Haram: Ending the Genocides 
through a Multi-State Solution  (Page Publishers, 2013). 
Ezombi, B. and Nasidi, N.A. (2018). ‘Revisionism and the Historical 
Interpretation of the Sokoto Caliphate: The Writings of Murray 
Last’ Agogo Journal of Humanities, 4, (2013): Olabisi Onabanjo 
University, Ago-Iwoye. 
Fisseha, M., ‘The Nexus Between Religion and Terrorism: An 
Investigation into the Boko Haram Killing Activities in Nigeria’, 
(MA Thesis, Uppsala University, 2016).URL:http://uu.diva-
portal.org/smash/re-cord.jsf?pid=diva2%3A933994&dswid=-
9146. 
Fourman, J. F., ‘When Insurgents Go Terrorist: The Role of Foreign 
Support in the Adoption of Terrorism’ (MA Thesis, Wright State 
University, 2014).URL: 
http://rave.ohiolink.edu/etdc/view?acc_ 
num=wright1399546682.  
Freedom, C.O., ‘Boko Haram and Evolving Salafi Jihadist threat in 
Nigeria. De Montclos, M.A.P., Boko Haram: Islamism, Politics, 
Security and the State in Nigeria, Vol. 2, (Netherlands: African 
Studies Centre, 2014). 
Higazi, A. et al, ‘Response to Jacob Zenn on Boko Haram and al-Qa’ida’, 
Perspective on Terrorism, 12 (2) (2008). 
Hoechner, H. ‘Traditional Quranic Students (almajirai) in Nigeria: Fair 
game for unfair accusations? In Perouse M. M. (ed) Boko Haram: 
Islamism, Politics, Security and State in Nigeria (Nigeria: African 
Studies, 2014). 
Innocent, P., ‘The Source and Method of Youth Recruitment into Boko 
Haram Terrorist Group: The North East Experience’ (M. A. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S               Rukayya Maisara Wali 
52 
 
Peace and Conflict Studies, Modibbo Adama University of 
Technology, Yola, 2016). 
Jackson, R. and Sinclair, S.J., Contemporary Debating on Terrorism 
(Routledge: Chapman & Hall, 2012). 
NYSC, A Compendium of the National Youth Service Corps Scheme: Ten 
Years of Service to the Nation (Lagos: NYSC Directorate, 1983). 
NYSC, Community Development Service (Lagos: NYSC Directorate, 
1984). 
NYSC, Decree and Amendments. No. 28 Vol. 60, May 23rd, Part A, 1973. 
Toyobo, A.E. and Muili, A.B., ‘Constraints Militating against 
Effectiveness of Community Development Projects in Ilesa’, 
Journal of Geography and Regional Planning, 1(8), (2008). 
Uomwen, D., ‘Tackling NYSC’s Security Challenge’, 
http://www.pmnewsnigeria.com/2012/10/tackling-nysc-
security-challenge/.Retrieved on 1st May, 2014. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

An Appraisal of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC)... 
53 
 
 44 44    
    An Appraisal of the National Youth Service Corps 
(NYSC), Economic and Financial Crimes Commission 
(EFCC) and Community Development Service (CDS) 
Group 
 
 
Praise Fisayo Akinniyi 
 
 
Introduction 
The culture of graduate youths serving their countries has been 
practiced in different forms in different countries across the world, 
including the United States, Israel, India, Ghana, among others. There 
are currently about 75 countries in the world wherein such national 
services are practiced. Often times, such services are military and 
compulsory as in Nigeria, Denmark, Russia and Germany, to name a 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                Praise Fisayo Akinniyi 
54 
 
few. Although the capacity in which citizens serve varies from one 
country to another. More often than not, the varying factors lies in 
service term, age, gender, required number of youths, goals of service, 
alternative service options and even public opinions about the service-
call. 1 
In recent times, there have been renewed clarion calls for youth 
enrollment in the fight against corruption. This focus on youth 
participation in anti-corruption is significant due to the fact that youths 
make up the vast majority of the population, particularly in African 
nations. The United Nations estimates the continent’s population at 1.3 
billion, of which 65% are below the age of 35.2Thus, it is not just 
evident that the African youth bears the most brunt of corruption, but 
that they have inescapably become accomplices in corruption for 
patronage and survival.3 
The pervasive nature of corruption, particularly political and 
bureaucratic corruption no doubt hinders the progress of the youths in 
African countries. This scourge can be said to be responsible for mass 
youth migration from and within the sub-Sahara. Young people from 
Nigeria, Senegal, Libya, Ghana among others, constantly migrate to 
European nations for greener pastures, and often times through dare-
devil voyages across the Mediterranean Sea.4This shows the 
desperation with which youths seek better living opportunities, mostly 
because the countries’ management is ridden in corruption and bereft 
of developmental opportunities.  
                                                           1National Commission on Service. (2018). Mandatory Service Around the Globe. 
http://medium.com/@inspire2serveUS/mandatory-service-around-the-globe.  2UN. Youth  Empowerment. Office of the Special Adviser on Africa (OSSA).2019. 3K. Edward, Arresting Corruption in Africa: Role of the Youth. Institute for 
Security Studies. Policy Brief 119.2018, November. 4L. Ikuteyijo. Why Young Nigerians Risk Illegal Migration to Find their 
‘Eldorado’. The Conversation.2020, January 21. http://theconversation-
com.cdn.amproject.org/v/s/theconversation.com/amp/why-young-nigerians-risk-
illegal-migration-to-find 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

An Appraisal of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC)... 
55 
 
In Nigeria, the foremost anti-graft agency, the Economic and Financial 
Crimes Commission (EFCC) initiated a partnership with the National 
Youth Service Corps (NYSC) as a platform from which to draft Nigerian 
youths in the fight against corruption. Under the auspices of the 
Community Development Service (CDS) groups, the EFCC and the NYSC 
corps members embark on sensitization campaigns and symposiums 
across the country with a “say no to corruption” motto.5 It is thus 
imperative to elucidate on corruption and its consequent nexus with 
the youth, to highlight the role of the youth in the fight against 
corruption and to access the nature and successes of the partnership 
between the EFCC and NYSC in this agenda.   
 
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and Economic and 
Financial Crime Commission (EFCC): A Historical Note 
The military government of General Yakubu Gowon established the 
National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) on 22nd May, 1973 in an effort to 
rebuild, reconstruct and reconcile the Nigerian federation after the 
disparaging three-year civil war of 1963 to 1967. According to the 
decree No. 24, the corps was established to properly encourage and 
develop common ties among the youths of Nigeria and to promote 
national unity. Each of the thirty-six states of the federation including 
the Federal Capital Territory has an orientation camp to which 
graduates are evenly deployed outside their places of birth and 
domicile. Only university and subsequently polytechnic graduates are 
required to take part in the compulsory NYSC Scheme.6 
 
Corps members are mobilized to the various orientation camps and 
trained for three weeks in the different orientation camps. At the end of 
                                                           5EFCC.EFCC/NYSC Integrity Group Sentisizes Schools, Donates. February 21, 
2020. http://www.efccnigeria.org/efcc/news/5500-efcc-nysc-integrity-group-
sensitizes-schools.  6NYSC Directorate Headquarters. NYSC - About Scheme.2017. 
http://www.nysc.gov.ng/aboutscheme.html. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                Praise Fisayo Akinniyi 
56 
 
the training, the corps members are posted to their appropriate fields 
of Primary Assignment, where they would remain and work for the 
remaining part of the service year. The service years then end with a 
Passing out Parade.7 
Corruption, especially pervasive corruption, is indisputably antithetical 
to socio-economic development. Nigeria, the most populous country 
and largest economy in the African continent is immensely caught in 
the web of political (and bureaucratic) corruption, and at an 
undeniably alarming rate. Some of the prevalent forms of corruption in 
the Nigerian public sector includes: bribery, electoral corruption, 
ghost-worker phenomenon, budgeting corruption, nepotism, forgery, 
theft and procurement scams among others. These forms of corruption 
are closely related to the existing social norms of the country. This is 
essentially due to the patrimonial nature of the state.8 
Over the years, successive governments have designed various policies, 
measures, and programs to fight the menace of corruption in Nigeria. 
For instance, Shagari’s policy of Ethical Revolution to fight corruption 
through the introduction of Code of Conduct for public servants 
introduced in 1981; the War Against Indiscipline (WAI) by the 
Buhari/Idiagbon administration in 1984; the Ethical and Social 
Mobilization Crusade by the Babangida regime in 1986 as well as War 
Against Indiscipline and Corruption (WAI-C) by Abacha’s 
administration in 1994. These efforts remained largely at the level of 
rhetoric, and did not yield significant change. However, the most 
significant of these measures hitherto are those of Presidents Obasanjo 
and Buhari. President Obasanjo, a former military head of state, who 
was sworn in as the first civilian president after long years of military 
                                                           7M. Ohagenyi. Boko Haram and Threat to NYSC Programme.2014. 
https://www.google.com.ng/?gfe_rd=cr&ei=ighlU-3HIMTR8gePIHABg# 
q=pdf+security+threats+to+NYSC.  8Transparency International.U4 Expert Answer.Anti-Corruption Resource Center. 
CMI Institute. 2014. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

An Appraisal of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC)... 
57 
 
rule vouched to tackle corruption, and thus established two bodies – 
the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and the 
Independent Corrupt Practices Commission [ICPC].9 
The EFCC was established through an Act of Parliament in 2002, and 
started operations in 2003.  The Act mandates the EFCC to combat 
financial and economic crimes. The Commission is empowered to 
investigate, prosecute, and penalize economic and financial crimes and 
is mandated with the responsibility of enforcing the provisions of other 
laws and regulations relating to economic and financial crimes, 
including the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission 
Establishment Act (2004), the Money Laundering Act (1995), the 
Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act (2004), the Advance Fee Fraud 
and Other Fraud Related Offences Act (1995), the Failed Banks 
(Recovery of Debts) and Financial Malpractices in Banks Act (1994), 
the Banks and Other Financial Institutions Act (1991), as well as the 
Miscellaneous Offences Act.10 
The agency is acclaimed to have achieved much in the areas of; 
cleansing of the banking sub-sector, reorganisation of critical agencies 
of government, prosecution and conviction of corrupt top public 
officers, record convictions for  money laundering and terrorism, 
recovery and return of proceeds of crime, setting up of the Financial 
Intelligence Unit (FIU) and taking action against terrorist financing, 
setting up a machinery for monitoring activities in the oil industry and 
prevention of illegal bunkering, partnership with Microsoft against 
internet scam and identity theft, and capacity building for law 
enforcement and judicial officials, since its establishment in 2003.11 
                                                           9N. Nwaodu, A Review of Anti-Corruption Wars in Nigeria. Africa’s Public 
Service Delivery and Performance Review 2(3):153-174.2014. 10N. Nwaodu, A Review of Anti-Corruption Wars in Nigeria... 11A. Fatai, An Appraisal of the Performance of the Economic and Financial Crimes 
Commission in Nigeria. International Journal of Offender Therapy and 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S
The table below shows the list of cash and property recoveries between 
May 29, 2015 and May 25, 2016.
 
Table 4.1: Recovered Loots
Cash Recoveries  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                        
Comparative Criminology 54(6) 1047
 
C.D.S                Praise Fisayo Akinniyi
58 
 
The table below shows the list of cash and property recoveries between 
May 29, 2015 and May 25, 2016. 
Recovered Loots 
 
                                                                                                                        
Comparative Criminology 54(6) 1047-1069. SAGE Publications.2010. 
Praise Fisayo Akinniyi 
The table below shows the list of cash and property recoveries between 
 
                                                       
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

An Appraisal of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC)
Table 4.2: Recoveries 
Table 4.3: Funds Awaiting Return from Foreign Jurisdictions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An Appraisal of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC)... 
59 
 
Recoveries under Interim Forfeiture  
Funds Awaiting Return from Foreign Jurisdictions 
 
 
Funds Awaiting Return from Foreign Jurisdictions  
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                Praise Fisayo Akinniyi 
60 
 
Table 4.4: Non Cash Recoveries  
 
12 
 
Under the erstwhile Ibrahim Magu-led EFCC, the commission recorded 
a total of 603 convictions between 2015 and May 29, 2018. An 
aggregate of 103, 195 and 189 convictions recorded in 2015, 2016 and 
2017 respectively. Most of these convictions were secured within three 
years of filing the cases in court, however these cases can largely be 
categorized as low profile economic and financial crimes such as 
advance fee fraud (that is, obtaining by false pretences) criminal 
conspiracy, criminal breach of trust, forgery and uttering, employment 
scam, impersonation and currency counterfeiting; rather than ‘grand’ 
crimes arising from the embezzlement of public funds, illegally dealing 
in petroleum products and money laundering and the likes.13 
 
Although it is popularly argued that the fight against corruption in 
Nigeria can be described as a fight against an oligarchy with immense 
resources to fight back, as the EFCC is failing to successfully prosecute 
top government officials.14 However, the performance of the EFCC so 
far is nearly laudable. It appears that there is a reduction in the area of 
bank fraud and flagrant abuse of office. Unlike in the past, Nigerians, 
                                                           12E. Akinkuotu, List of EFCC recoveries. The Punch. 2016, April 13. 13The Nation News Paper. EFCC Secures 603 Convictions in Three Years.2018, 
May 29. 14E. Onyema. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission… 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

An Appraisal of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC)... 
61 
 
especially the serving public officials, are now conscious of the fact that 
their activities are constantly monitored by the watch dog – EFCC and 
that they can be summoned at any time to give account of their public 
service. 
In Africa, issues of national development cannot be sufficiently 
discussed without recourse to corruption, parochialism and nepotism. 
In fact, corruption is often conceptualized along the purviews of 
Patronage and nepotism, which has deep-seated cultural roots. The 
structure of the patronage system is based on social relationships 
between clients seeking for a man with the ability of friendship, power 
and connections to ‘protect’ them, and a patron who accepts these 
duties in return for political allegiance. In patronage, the patron has the 
power to offer gains which the client desires.15 Examples of such could 
be the construction of a road near the client’s house, or the recruitment 
of the client (or his relative) in an office in which the patron has 
control. In most African societies, patrons are referred to as ‘Big Men.’ 
In Nigeria, this has a local equivalence in local languages which have 
been in usage since pre-colonial era. A ‘big man’ is known amongst the 
Hausa people as 'maigida' (landlord or the head of a household), in 
Yoruba – ‘baba-isale’ (father of the underground world) and in Ibo – 
Nnam-Ukwu (my master). 
In Kenya, they are referred to as ‘mtu-mkubwa’ or ‘mungu-baba’ (big 
father or great father). These words often go beyond its literal meaning 
in day-to-day conversations. However, what is much disturbing is the 
evolvement of this socio-economic system into the political field and 
worst still, the preposterous nature of what patrons now ask for from 
their clients as reward for providing them with illicit services. To this 
                                                           15B. Rasak, God Fatherism and Political Patronage in Nigeria: A Theoretical 
Overview. Political Science Review. Vol. 8(1):77-101. 2017.  
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                Praise Fisayo Akinniyi 
62 
 
end, Ogunyemi16 asserts that “corruption is a social vice that confers 
some rewards (tangible or intangible) on perpetrators at the expense 
of their victims, be they individuals or sovereign state.” 
 
Impact of Corruption on the Nigerian Youths 
Corruption undoubtedly has negative impact on national development. 
However, the impact of corruption on Nigeria’s youths is profound, 
pervasive and underemphasized. Murimi Kauthia17 asserts that young 
people more often than not, bear the brunt of corruption. According to 
the African Union statistics, 65% of African population is below the age 
of 35 and is projected to have doubled as at 2020. These statistics imply 
that the youths are clearly the most vulnerable population to 
corruption; whether as voters, students, clients or entrepreneurs. From 
demand for bribes to get enrollment into tertiary institutions, to 
securing employment, to obtaining national licenses, permits and 
identifications, to be bribed on a voting queue and receiving handouts 
from politicians for illicit purposes.18 
It is evident that the endemic nature of corruption particularly in the 
political and bureaucratic institutions of African countries is factors 
responsible for youth migration from and within the continent. Young 
school graduates in Nigeria, for example, believe that their chances of 
securing jobs in Nigeria are compromised by corruption. It is common 
place to find passing-out corps members carrying placards and 
soliciting for jobs on social media given that, the monthly allowance of 
the NYSC is about to end and their chances of gaining employment are 
slim since they do not have “connection.” To buttress this point, over 
20,000 Nigerians were estimated to have embarked on very risky 
                                                           16O. Adetunji. Historical Evidence of Corruption in Colonial Nigeria: An Analysis 
of Financial Records in the Decolonization Period, 1950–1960. Journal of Asian 
and African Studies.1-17. 2016. 17Kauthia, Edward,Murimi. Arresting Corruption in Africa: Role of the 
Youth.Institute for Security Studies.Policy Brief 119.2018, November. 18Ibid. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

An Appraisal of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC)... 
63 
 
journeys across the Mediterranean Sea in 2016 alone.19 This shows the 
desperation with which youths seek better living opportunities, mostly 
because the country’s management is ridden in corruption and bereft 
of developmental opportunities.  
Taking a cue from Murimi’s argument, youths are not just victims of 
corruption, but have inadvertently become accomplices in corruption, 
putting it succinctly thus:  
Of concern is the reality that African youths are not just 
victims of corruption, but are engaging in and 
tolerating corruption. It is alleged that the youth, 
despite pronouncements and aspirations for legitimacy 
as equal partners, have colluded in dysfunctional 
relationships of expediency and opportunism – 
working the system as they hustle to eke out a living 
and gain advantage.20 
 
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Community 
Development Service (CDS) Groups 
The NYSC Community Development Service (CDS) is a programme in 
which corps members contribute positively to the development of their 
respective host communities throughout their service year. These 
community services over the decades have largely bridged the gap 
between rural and urban communities and contributed to the overall 
social, political and economic transformation in Nigeria.21 According to 
reports of the NYSC-CDS, the CDS programmes, whether group or 
                                                           19Lanre, Ikuteyijo. Why Young Nigerians Risk Illegal Migration to Find their 
‘Eldorado’. The Conversation.2020, January 21. http://theconversation-
com.cdn.amproject.org/v/s/theconversation.com/amp/why-young-nigerians-risk-
illegal-migration-to-find 20Kauthia, Edward, Murimi. Arresting Corruption in Africa: Role of the Youth. 
Institute for Security Studies. Policy Brief 119.2018, November.5-6.  21NYSC Directorate Headquarters. NYSC - About Scheme.2017. 
http://www.nysc.gov.ng/aboutscheme.html. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                Praise Fisayo Akinniyi 
64 
 
personal have transformed Nigerian communities in the areas of 
agriculture, education, health care delivery, infrastructure, technology, 
communication, poverty eradication, economic empowerment, social 
services and more significantly, patriotism and socio-cultural 
renaissance.22 
The following according to the documentation of the NYSC-CDS23, are 
the various CDS groups in the program: 
o Corps Legal Aid Group (CLAG); they provide free legal services 
to vulnerable members of the society and sensitise the public 
on their fundamental human rights.  
o Sports CDS Group; they create opportunities for recreation, 
healthy rivalry and healthy living among corps members.  
o Environmental protection and Sanitation Group 
(NEMA/NESREA Vanguard); they create awareness and 
promote a sustainable environment, with activities including 
tree planting, sanitation and afforestation, among others. 
o Education Development Group (mass literacy, adult education, 
extra murals ICT); they enhance education standard and 
provide career guidance and counselling. 
o Cultural and Tourism Group (band, dance, drama and tourism); 
they promote arts and culture and enhance sociopolitical and 
economic prospects. 
o Road Safety Club (RSC) Group; they contribute to public safety 
on roads, through sensitizations, traffic control, delivery of first 
aid to victims of accidents and establishment of road safety 
clubs in schools. 
o Editorial/Publicity Group; they support the activities of the 
NYSC public relations in broadcasting information to the 
general public. 
o Disaster Management Group (NEMA); through a liaison with 
                                                           22NYSC-CDS.A to Z of NYSC CDS.2021. http://nysc-cds.com/cds-clubs. 23Ibid. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

An Appraisal of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC)... 
65 
 
NEMA, they provide awareness on disaster management and 
control and form emergency vanguard clubs in schools.  
o Medical and Health Services Group (Red Cross, Breast Without 
Spot, Polio Plus, among others); they promote and provide 
medical services. 
o Service Delivery Group (Attitudinal Change, Rebranding); they 
sensitize the public on service delivery and good work ethics. 
o Drug Free and Quality Control Group (NDLEA, NAFDAC, SON); 
they promote the eradication of fake and adulterated foods and 
drugs, create awareness on the inherent dangers of drug abuse 
and establish drug-free clubs in schools. 
o Charity Service and Gender Group; they canvass for better 
living for the vulnerable in the communities, mobilize funds and 
embark on charity outreaches, as well as donation of materials 
to homes and camps. 
o The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Group; they create 
awareness and support the actualization of the 17 actions of the 
SDGs. 
o Agro-allied Group; they support agro-allied activities and 
promote better food production and security. 
o Anti-Corruption Group (EFCC and ICPC); they promote the 
eradication of corruption primarily through campaigns, 
including the establishment of anti-corruption clubs in schools. 
o Reproductive Health and HIV/AIDS Group; they train and 
mentor students and mobilize and support community based 
responses on HIV/AIDS prevention. 
Some of these groups, however, may not be found in some states 
because these groups are often merged together if their functions are 
compatible. For instance, Disaster Management Group (NEMA 
Vanguard) is compatible with Environmental Protection and Sanitation 
Group (NESREA Vanguard). Thus, some states have such CDS groups 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                Praise Fisayo Akinniyi 
66 
 
merged as one.24 
As mentioned earlier, these community services could be 
personal/individual or collaborative/group. While the former suggests 
projects/programmes executed by individual corps members in their 
given communities, the latter suggests such services executed by 
groups, often in partnership with governmental and non-governmental 
organizations in their respective host communities. And the 
recruitment of corps members into these collaborative groups often 
begins from the orientation camps. However, this study particularly 
focuses on the Anti-Corruption CDS Group, particularly the NYSC 
liaison with EFCC. 
 
The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) 
Community Development Service (CDS) Group in Perspective 
The anti-corruption CDS of the NYSC known as the EFCC/NYSC CDS 
Group, or popularly called, the Integrity CDS group, is an initiative of 
the anti-graft Commission charged to campaign on the behalf of the 
EFCC as a preventive mandate. This initiative is designed to foster 
attitudinal and mental re-orientation among youths, as agents of 
change across all ages, cultures and vocations within the country. The 
group seeks to encourage youths, including those in secondary schools, 
on the need to imbibe the culture of honesty, discipline and 
accountability at all times.25 
The EFCC, particularly under the erstwhile administration of Ibrahim 
Magu has engaged the youths as whistleblowers in the fight against 
corruption. in his charge, he said “you all should be agents of change 
and also whistleblowers of criminal acts. Report any evil activities 
around your environments, whenever and wherever you find 
                                                           24NYSC-CDS.A to Z of NYSC CDS.2021. http://nysc-cds.com/cds-clubs. 25EFCC.EFCC/NYSC Integrity Group Sentisizes Schools, Donates. February 21, 
2020. http://www.efccnigeria.org/efcc/news/5500-efcc-nysc-integrity-group-
sensitizes-schools.  
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

An Appraisal of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC)... 
67 
 
yourselves.” According to the commission’s chairman, to achieve this 
charge, corps members must keep enlisting massively in the EFCC 
Integrity CDS group in the course of their one-year national service so 
as to be drafted into the fight against corruption.26 
The available records of the EFCC inform that; the Integrity CDS group 
has embarked on several campaigns, sensitisations and vocational 
partnerships in secondary schools, Internally Displaced People’s (IDP) 
camps and radio programmes; and established EFCC anticorruption 
clubs across the nation. There have also been several rallies, 
walkathons and marches in most cities in the country. In February 
2020 for instance, a 10-million-man-match anticorruption rally was 
organized across the 36 states including the FCT, facilitating awareness 
among all stakeholders in the fight against corruption in the 
country.2728  
Furthermore, the corps themselves are sensitized against participating 
in vote buying and selling as they perform given duties during general 
elections. The CDS members are considered as integrity ambassadors 
to other corps members and indeed society at large. In Sokoto state, the 
EFCC Zonal Head, Abdullahi Lawal, testified to the relevance of the CDS 
in the state. According to him, corps members blew the whistle on fund 
diversion during the 2019 elections which led to the recovery of N320 
million.29 
 
                                                           26Ibid. 27EFCC. Don’t Get Involved in Vote Buying, Selling, EFCC Warns NYSC 
Members. 28 February, 2019. http://www.efccnigeria.org/efcc/news/3824-don-t-
get-involved-in-vote-buying-selling-efcc.  28Olaleye, Aluko. EFCC, NYSC Conduct Nationwide March Against Corruption. 
2020, February 14http://punchng-com.cdn.amproject.org/v/s/punchng.com/efcc-
nysc-conduct-nation. 29Pulse Nigeria. NYSC Members’ Petition Led to Recovery of N320m – EFCC. 14 
February, 2020. http://www-pulse-
ng.cdn.amproject.org/v/s/www.pulse.ng/news/local/how-nysc.  
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                Praise Fisayo Akinniyi 
68 
 
Consequently, the Integrity CDS has particularly canvassed against 
vote-buying and ballot-box snatching during elections in the country. 
The group has sensitized several stake holders in the country, including 
Nigerians in IDP camps, who due to their vulnerable state have become 
ready victims of vote buying in exchange for palliatives packages from 
donours. The erstwhile national president of the CDS, Batta Wakil, 
iterated that in their visits to IDPs, the displaced persons complained 
about their benefactors demanding for Permanent Voter’s Cards (PVC) 
in exchange for assistance. Thus, the CDS group has seized this 
challenge to educate people on their right and duty to object to, and 
report, such corrupt overtures, while the CDS group also monitors 
these IDPs closely during election periods.30 
Additionally, youths are typically more attuned with social media and 
mobile applications; therefore, these platforms are ordinarily expected 
to be enthusiastically and sufficiently employed by corps members as 
trendy and veritable platforms for radical anticorruption campaigns. 
Quite surprisingly, the Facebook pages of the various state Integrity 
groups rarely have engaging information about corruption and the 
fights against it. Perhaps, this general lull is due to the hydra-headed 
nature of corruption, which rears its ugly head deep into society’s 
social frame and counters its fighters. This dilemma is what Ogburn 
William, in his structural functionalism theory referred to as cultural 
lag.31 
 
 
 
                                                           30EFCC.Don’t Get Involved in Vote Buying, Selling, EFCC Warns NYSC Members.  
28 February, 2019. http://www.efccnigeria.org/efcc/news/3824-don-t-get-involved-
in-vote-buying-selling-efcc.  31Balon, Jan. The Theory of Cultural Lag: Social Science and its Audience in the 
Works of Thorstein Veblen and William F. Ogburn.The Czech Academy of 
Sciences.2017.   
http://www.researchgate.net/publication/325112734_the_theory_of_cultural_lag.  
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

An Appraisal of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC)... 
69 
 
Conclusion 
This study sought to understand the nature of corruption in the 
Nigerian state, with focal reference on the workings and activities of 
the NYSC/EFCC CDS group as a veritable platform for engaging the 
youths in the fight against corruption. In this regard, the study 
considered the historical context of both institutions, that is, the NYSC 
and EFCC, which primarily highlighted the proceeding factors that 
necessitated the establishment of these institutions as well as their 
core objectives and achievements hitherto. Furthermore, divergent 
perspectives on the issues of conscriptions and mandatory national 
service were considered from around the globe. The study gathered 
that in several countries, youths serve the nation, and in varying 
capacities basically bothering on age, service term, gender, goal of 
service, number of conscripts among other varying principles. In 
Nigeria, the NYSC was established for the critical purpose of national 
integration, patriotism and all-round youth development.  
The significant take-home point of this paper is the fact that, youths as 
a matter of expediency must be drafted as combatants in the fight 
against corruption in Nigeria. This is primarily because the youths form 
the largest percentage of the country’s population, and worst still, are 
the worst-hit in the fallback of corruption. Today the youths are not 
victims of corruption, but have become inescapable accomplice in 
corrupt acts. Therefore, the NYSC is identified as veritable platform 
through which government and the anti-corruption agencies combat 
corruption. Furthermore, the research found out that although the 
partnership between the NYSC and EFCC is commendable, veritable 
and durable, however, the partnership, operationalism and activities 
remain insufficient, in the fight against corruption in Nigeria. This work 
further suggests the following: 
• The EFCC, NYSC and other relevant institutions of anti-
corruption and national development should further utilize 
social media, and even music, movies and other trendy 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                Praise Fisayo Akinniyi 
70 
 
platforms to make policies and strategies in the fight against 
corruption. 
• The law enforcement agencies, including the EFCC and ICPC 
should ensure that youths who blow the whistle on corrupt acts 
be provided adequate witness protection. 
• Nigerian youths need to be given better level playing field in 
matters of anti-corruption initiatives, public information and 
accountability beyond the traditionally existing patterns.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

An Appraisal of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC)... 
71 
 
Bibliography 
 
A. Fatai, An Appraisal of the Performance of the Economic and Financial 
Crimes Commission in Nigeria. International Journal of Offender 
Therapy and Comparative Criminology 54(6) 1047-1069. SAGE 
Publications.2010. 
B. Rasak, God Fatherism and Political Patronage in Nigeria: A 
Theoretical Overview. Political Science Review. Vol. 8(1):77-101. 
2017.  
Balon, Jan. The Theory of Cultural Lag: Social Science and its Audience in 
the Works of Thorste in Veblen and William F. Ogburn. The Czech 
Academy of Sciences.2017.   
http://www.researchgate.net/publication/325112734_the_the
ory_of_cultural_lag. 
C. Okafor, National Youth Service Corps and Growing Security Threats 
in Nigeria. Africa’s Public Service Delivery and Performance 
Review.Vol 2 (2): 149-164. 2014. 
E. Akinkuotu, List of EFCC recoveries. The Punch. 2016, April 13. 
E. Onyema. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission… 
EFCC.Don’t Get Involved in Vote Buying, Selling, EFCC Warns NYSC 
Members. 28 February, 2019. 
http://www.efccnigeria.org/efcc/news/3824-don-t-get-
involved-in-vote-buying-selling-efcc.  
EFCC. Don’t Get Involved in Vote Buying, Selling, EFCC Warns NYSC 
Members. 28 February, 2019. 
http://www.efccnigeria.org/efcc/news/3824-don-t-get-
involved-in-vote-buying-selling-efcc.  
EFCC.EFCC/NYSC Integrity Group Sentisizes Schools, Donates. February 
21, 2020. http://www.efccnigeria.org/efcc/news/5500-efcc-
nysc-integrity-group-sensitizes-schools.  
EFCC.EFCC/NYSC Integrity Group Sentisizes Schools, Donates. February 
21, 2020.  
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                Praise Fisayo Akinniyi 
72 
 
K. Edward, Arresting Corruption in Africa: Role of the Youth. Institute 
for Security Studies. Policy Brief 119.2018, November. 
Kauthia, Edward, Murimi. Arresting Corruption in Africa: Role of the 
Youth. Institute for Security Studies. Policy Brief 119.2018, 
November. 
Kauthia, Edward, Murimi. Arresting Corruption in Africa: Role of the 
Youth. Institute for Security Studies. Policy Brief 119.2018, 
November.5-6. 
L. Ikuteyijo. Why Young Nigerians Risk Illegal Migration to Find their 
‘Eldorado’. The Conversation.2020, January 21. 
http://theconversation-
com.cdn.amproject.org/v/s/theconversation.com/amp/why-
young-nigerians-risk-illegal-migration-to-find 
Lanre, Ikuteyijo. Why Young Nigerians Risk Illegal Migration to Find 
their ‘Eldorado’. The Conversation.2020, January 21. 
http://theconversation-
com.cdn.amproject.org/v/s/theconversation.com/amp/why-
young-nigerians-risk-illegal-migration-to-find.  
M. Ohagenyi. Boko Haram and Threat to NYSC 
Programme.2014.https://www.google.com.ng/?gfe_rd=cr&ei=i
ghlU-3HIMTR8gePIHABg# 
N. Nwaodu, A Review of Anti-Corruption Wars in Nigeria. Africa’s Public 
Service Delivery and Performance Review 2(3):153-174.2014. 
National Commission on Service. (2018). Mandatory Service Around the 
Globe. http://medium.com/@inspire2serveUS/mandatory-
service-around-the-globe.  
NYSC Directorate Headquarters. NYSC - About Scheme.2017. 
http://www.nysc.gov.ng/aboutscheme.html. 
NYSC Directorate Headquarters. NYSC - About Scheme.2017. 
http://www.nysc.gov.ng/aboutscheme.html. 
NYSC-CDS.A to Z of NYSC CDS.2021. http://nysc-cds.com/cds-clubs. 
NYSC-CDS.A to Z of NYSC CDS.2021. http://nysc-cds.com/cds-clubs. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

An Appraisal of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC)... 
73 
 
O. Adetunji. Historical Evidence of Corruption in Colonial Nigeria: An 
Analysis of Financial Records in the Decolonization Period, 
1950–1960. Journal of Asian and African Studies.1-17. 2016. 
Olaleye, Aluko. EFCC, NYSC Conduct Nationwide March Against 
Corruption. 2020, February 14http://punchng-
com.cdn.amproject.org/v/s/punchng.com/efcc-nysc-conduct-
nation. 
Pulse Nigeria. NYSC Members’ Petition Led to Recovery of N320m – EFCC. 
14 February, 2020. http://www-pulse-
ng.cdn.amproject.org/v/s/www.pulse.ng/news/local/how-
nysc.  
q=pdf+security+threats+to+NYSC.  
The Nation News Paper.EFCC Secures 603 Convictions in Three 
Years.2018, May 29. 
1Transparency International.U4 Expert  Answer. Anti-Corruption 
Resource Center. CMI Institute. 2014. 
UN. Youth  Empowerment. Office of the Special Adviser on Africa 
(OSSA).2019. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                           Orison Oliver 
74 
 
    55 55    
    National Youth Service Corps and Media for Socio-
Economic Development in Nigeria 
 
 
Orison Oliver 
 
 
Introduction 
The media comprises of newspapers, radio, television and other forms 
of communication tools such as the social media; Emails, Facebook, 
YouTube and Twitter which is classified under the internet. It has 
become a major tool of development in today’s society, and this is 
because society has become mediated; people in today’s world, live in 
an environment that is more interconnected than before and this has 
extended peoples’ awareness to the outside and their immediate 
spheres of observation. This is because the media has become crucial 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Media for Socio-Economic... 
75 
 
for people to beware of even the most basic facts about their immediate 
surroundings; by accessing information from radio, television and 
newspaper programs devoted primarily to entertainment and 
information dissemination.  
It has played effective roles in shaping public opinion and perception 
on major aspects of political and social issues. And thus, any organized 
society, government or institution which takes the media for granted 
does so at its own peril. Thus, the great power of the mass media to 
influence and shape public opinion (cannot be underestimated), it is 
recognized all over the world, because the media constitute a very 
powerful component of propaganda machinery utilized by 
governments, organized people, interest groups, business 
organizations to influence and control people.1 
The media is referred to as the “Fourth Estate of the Realm” after the 
executive, the legislature and the Judiciary.2 This shows that, the 
influence of the mass media, its power and its impact over today’s 
modern societies cannot be denied. The media plays an important role 
in the development of societies and countries all over the world, and 
has enough potential that can contribute effectively to even conflict 
resolution and reconciliation. Audu succinctly captures this when he 
stated rightly that, “the media can help build peace and social consensus, 
without which democracy is threatened, and has capacity to provide 
warring groups mechanism for mediation, representation and voice, so 
that they can settle their differences peacefully.”3Development cannot be 
                                                           1 Osisioma B.C Nwolise, “Media Correspondents, Security Agents Relations and 
The Issues of Nigeria’s National Security,” in … p. 75 2 Ray A. Udeajah, Broadcasting and politics in Nigeria 1963-2003, Enugu: 
SNAAP Press LTD, 2004, p. 2 
3Bem J. Audu, “The Foreign Media and Nigeria’s 2015 General Elections”, John T. 
Tsuwa and Elijah T. Ikpanor (eds) The 2015 General Elections in Nigeria: 
Emerging Issue, Abuja: Donafrique Publishers, 2017, p. 43. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                           Orison Oliver 
76 
 
achieved in a society where there is segregation and no peaceful social 
coexistence.4 
The aim of development as they argue is to ‘raise the knowledge base of 
a national economy’ in such a way that people are able contribute to 
‘economic growth’, ‘human development’, and ‘sustainable 
development’ in different nation states. On the one hand while some 
see development as providing opportunities, basic infrastructure, and 
human welfare support systems, development is also conceptualized as 
the ‘level of access to resources’ and the ‘ease through which people 
meet their needs’.5That is to say, some Nigerians see development as 
‘human development. The two main ways in which people discuss 
development are in terms of the wealth of places or the welfare of 
people. As we will see, there are several ways to measure both types of 
wealth. The various definition of development defines it as economic 
growth, improving living standards, or enhancing people’s control over 
their own lives.6 But Rodney argues that development cannot be seen 
purely as an economic affair, but as an overall social process which is 
dependent upon the outcome of man’s effort to deal with his natural 
environment.7It is on the above context that this study seeks to 
examine the National Youth service Corps and media for socio-
economic development in Nigeria 
 
 
 
                                                           4Okpeh O. Okpeh Jr. “Emerging Security Threats in Nigeria: Patterns and 
Implication on National Development” in S. Ibrahim (Ed.s) Defence, Security, 
Economy and Development in Nigeria, London: Bahiti and Dalila Publishers, Vol. 
1, 2017, p. 363 5Full text p. 151 6Scott Straus and Barry Driscoll, International Studies; Global Forces, 
Interactions, and Tensions, Los Angeles: SAGE Publications Inc., 2019, p. 402. 7 Walter Rodney, How Europe Underdeveloped Africa, Abuja: Panaf  Publishing 
Inc. 1972, p. 5 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Media for Socio-Economic... 
77 
 
NYSC Partnership with the Media for National Development and 
its Impact 
The media through its free flow of information to the general public can 
influence development via effective communication effective 
communication will bring about desired social and even economic 
development, because with adequate information being passed out to 
the general public people get to learn about new ideas and inventions 
that would aid their development. According to Wilbur Schramm, 
adequate flow of information in a developing country is necessary 
more than a flow from the top political hierarchy to the bottom. It must 
carry information which the people need to play their parts in a 
modern society.8  
Increasing number of radios, newspapers and cinemas will not 
necessary bring about a corresponding increase in the rate of social 
change. Merely multiplying messages and channels is not enough.9 But 
rather programmes that would involve discussions, media chats and 
even question and answer programmes aired by the media can 
positively influence development in a society, This is the approach 
NYSC has adopted in its partnership with the media for development. 
Example of how this approach works effectively is the instance Wilbur 
Schramm cited when he asserts that;: 
Several countries have found that adding a farm radio 
programme has not by itself appeared to accomplish 
much in the adoption of new practices. Yet a question 
and answer programme on farm practices in Jordan has 
proved to be very useful, and the combination of radio 
broadcast with group discussion in rural forums has 
been helpful in bringing about change.10  
                                                           8Wilbur Schramm, “Mass Media  and National Development,” Standford: 
Standford University Press, UNESCO, 1964,  p. 13 9Ibid,  p. 16 10Ibid 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                           Orison Oliver 
78 
 
i. Television Programmes  
Television is a medium that has great effect on people, because of its 
visual and audio capability, it is virtually found in almost all homes in 
urban and even some rural areas in Nigeria. It is a powerful medium 
that has even been used to shape the world outlook of many in the 
society. Through television programmes like dramas, reality shows, 
soap opera, movies, T.V contest and news etc. the perception of many 
has been influenced. Thus, realizing the potentials of television, NYSC 
has so far been able to partner with various T.V stations to bring about 
development in Nigeria. According to Msharili Musa: her reign as 
deputy director progammes of NTA Kaduna network center witnessed 
two NYSC programmes under the ‘Corps members Forum’ that were 
aired by the Kaduna network center before the COVID-19 pandemic 
disrupted the whole arrangement.11 Suleiman on his part stated that 
while he was in Jos and serving in the Community Development group 
(C.D.S) which he belonged to, they had programmes like the Millennium 
Development Goals programmes (M.D.G) and Sustainable Development 
Goals (S.D.G) prorammes aired on television. They used this medium to 
bring the leaders of the various CDS groups to discuss about 
developmental projects each group was working on. As a result of the 
discussions on the forum, people were sensitized and enlightened.12 
 
The Impact of Television Programmes on Socio-Economic 
Development in Nigeria 
One of the impacts the NYSC programmes aired on Television had was 
the reduction of violence in Nigeria especially during elections. For 
instance, Suleiman narrated a history of how as a Youth Corps member, 
                                                           11 Oral Interview with Msharili Musa,56 years, Deputy Director Programmes 
Nigeria Television Authority (N.T.A  Kaduna Network Center), Interviewed at the  
N.T.A  Kaduna Network Center on February 12, 2021. 12Oral Interview with Suleiman Sani, 29 years, Nigeria Television Authority 
(N.T.A Kaduna Network Center) interviewed atN.T.A Kaduna Network Center, on 
February19, 2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Media for Socio-Economic... 
79 
 
during the build-up to the 2019 elections, his CDS group used the 
media to sensitize and educate the general public on how the youth 
were the main tools used to create chaos and anarchy. They discussed 
issues regarding the activities of Nigerian Politicians. How they were 
using the youths to achieve their selfish interest, and urged the youths 
not to allow themselves to be used to perpetrate violence during the 
general elections. Other prorammes aired at the Plateau Radio and 
Television (PRTV), Jos by the ‘Corps members Forum’ include a 
documentary titled “Beauty for Ashes”, which was a peace 
documentary project highlighting the consequence of violence. This 
documentary was aired on Saturdays by 9.am under the ‘Corps 
members Forum Initiatives” and a rebroadcast on Tuesday by 9:00am. 
These programmes really helped in reducing violence in Plateau state 
especially during the last elections. 
 
Radio Programmes 
Nigeria is a country with on average literacy population, and radio is an 
ideal medium for both the literate and illiterate population that can’t 
read and write. They both can get information about issues and events 
from the radio. The National Youth Service scheme realizing the 
potential of radio, adopted it as one of the Media to partner with in the 
dissemination of information for the development and unity of Nigeria. 
According to Francis Y. Mai-Karfi, the NYSC Corps members were 
usually posted to the Kaduna state media corporation for their service, 
and part of the programmes scheduled by the Corporation for the 
Corps members includes a 30 minuets programme titled “Corpers’’ 
Forum.” He was supervising the programme at that time, and Corps 
members belonging to different groups under the Community 
Development Service (CDS) came together to discuss and even debate 
about their experience. They also discussed about political, economic 
and social developments taking place in the country and this helped to 
educate and enlighten the ordinary Nigerian about issues and 
developments. To make the programme more interesting the name of 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                           Orison Oliver 
80 
 
the programme was later changed from “Corps members Forum” to 
“From Me to You”13 
 
Impact of Radio Programmes 
One of the impacts recorded by this programme, was the education of 
the girl child in Kaduna state. According to Francis Y. Mai-Karfi “before 
the commencement of the ‘Corps members Forum” programme by 
KSMC, there was serious decline in girl child education in Kaduna state, 
but with the introduction of the programme, there was a sharp increase 
in the education of the girl child over the years.14This shows that 
parents were now enlightened and educated on the need to educate the 
girl child. 
 
ii. Newspaper (Print Media) 
The Newspaper is another important medium through which 
information is passed to the public but the problem of literacy affects 
those who cannot read or write. Thus, it does not appeal to all, this is a 
disadvantage that has continued to influence the patronage of the 
Newspaper in Nigeria, especially in rural areas. Today, Newspaper is 
known to be one of the media that captures the interest of the older 
section of the general population. Investigation has revealed that there 
was no formal partnership between NYSC and Newspaper outlets 
officially, and this is because of the large number of Newspaper 
outlets.15 According to Shola Ojo; rather it was the Sun Newspaper 
which he works with that covered some of the NYSC developmental 
programmes, and he was the correspondent that covered them. 
Furthermore he said that one of the programmes he remembered 
                                                           13 Oral Interview with Francis Y. Mai-Karfi,, 49 years, Programmes Supervisor 
interviewed at the Kaduna StateMedia Corporation on February 25, 2021.   14Oral Interview with Francis Y. Mai-Karfi,49 Years, Programmes Supervisor, 
Interviewed at Kaduna State Media Corporation, on February 25, 2021. 15Oral Interview with Shola Ojo, 40 Years, Journalist of the Sun Newspaper, 
Interviewed at the Office of the National Union of Journalist Kadunaon March 1, 
2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Media for Socio-Economic... 
81 
 
covering is the “Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development” 
(SAED).16 
 
Impact of Newspaper 
According to Shola Ojo: One of the impacts that the SAED programme 
had, was mostly on the Youth Corps members because they were 
taught entrepreneurial skills like fish farming, poultry and tailoring. 
These skills that were acquired via the SAED programme had gone a 
long way in helping some of the Corps members, because after their 
youth service programme some of them had used the skills to create 
jobs for themselves.17 
 
Social Media 
The internet was a recent development in Nigeria, with the impact of 
cyber communication and the internet, information dissemination in 
Nigeria has been remarkable. The increased number of computer, 
telephone, internet and mobile technology has made Nigerians to 
embrace social media platforms such as Twitter, Facebook and 
YouTube. Nigeria currently records the highest number of internet 
users in Africa; the country is reported to have 70,300,000 internet 
users out of the 297,885,898 internet users in Africa as at June 2014, 
while.18  Because social media it is a recent development, it is until 
recently that NYSC began to use it to pass information that would foster 
the unity of Nigeria and bring about development. For instance, in a 
recent charge by the Director General of the National Youth Service 
Corps (NYSC) Brig. Gen. Shuaibu Ibrahim in Emure-Ekiti during the 
                                                           16Ibid. 17 Ibid. 18 Moses M. Duruji,”Social Media and the 2015 Presidential Electioneering 
Campaign; The Case of Naira Land Forum, ” In John T. Tsuwa and Elijah T. 
Ikpanor (Eds.) The 2015 General Elections in Nigeria; Emerging Issues, Abuja: 
DonAfrique Publishers, 2017, p. 152.  
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                           Orison Oliver 
82 
 
Batch ‘B’. stream II Orientation, he cautioned Corps members against 
the use of social media to promote disunity in Nigeria. He further said 
that rather than promoting division among different ethnic groups, 
Corps members should be ambassadors of national development.  
Corps members should tread with caution; social media 
should not be used to propagate disunity in the 
country. Do not be an evangelist of hate speech, rather 
be ready to render selfless services for national 
development and transformation.19 
 
In another development, when the Director General of NYSC visited 
National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), he 
opined that a strategic partnership between NYSC and NITDA will bring 
about a significant drop in the number of fake news that pervades our 
social media in Nigeria. “Strengthening this partnership would assist the 
NYSC to overcome some of the menaces it is facing especially 
checkmating the spread of fake news on social media,” he said. He cited 
an example with the story of a JSS2 student alleged to have 
impregnated a Corps member, the D.G described the abuse of social 
media as worrisome and appealed to NITDA to stem the tide. He added 
that; 
Something has to be done to checkmate the menace of 
social media to save us from various embarrassments. 
Things that have happened in the past are now being 
put forwarded on social media to look like recent 
events. People are using the platforms to defraud 
unsuspecting members of the public. You can imagine 
people creating accounts to defraud Corps. members 
claiming they can help them to be redeployed, he 
exclaimed. He called for the arrest of such people to 
                                                           19Aljazirahnews.com/don’t-use-social-media-to-promote-disunity-nysc-D.G-tells-
corp-members/06-Sep-2019/ accessed on the 25th February 2021 by 5.07pm 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Media for Socio-Economic... 
83 
 
serve as deterrents to others so as to reduce the 
menace.20  
Thus, we will be looking at the following platforms under the social 
media such as Face-book, Twitter and U-report: 
 
Face-Book 
As at June 2012 Face-book as a social media site had 6,630,200 active 
users in Nigeria. Face-book has helped to connect millions of users all 
over the world using their internet connection. Instance of how NYSC 
had used Face-book to publicise recent developments, on the 29th of 
October, 2014, when a Face-book post stated that, the National Youth 
Service Corps (NYSC) flagged off a two day workshop in Abuja on how 
to keep Ebola virus disease (EVD) out of Nigeria. It stated that the 
workshop was a training programme for NYSC Schedule officers in the 
States and selected Corps members from the 36 States and the FCT.21 
This was one of the means that the NYSC educated Nigerian about the 
Ebola virus. Such information sharing helped Nigeria to keep the Ebola 
virus out of its borders while it ravaged neighboring West African 
countries. 
 
Impact of Face-Book 
The enlightening of the general public through Face-book by NYSC 
played a very crucial role in the battle against Ebola in 2014. The 
impact it had was, because many Nigerian youths are on Face-book. 
NYSC used its Face-book page to post messages that enlightened and 
educated them about the virus. This also helped in reducing the spread 
of fake news that were circulating online about the Ebola Virus. 
 
  
                                                           20 NITDA. GOV.NG/partnership-with-nitda-will-checkmate-the-spread-of-fake-
news-on-social-media-dg-nysc/ 21NYSCFacebook Page of 29-10-2014, accessed on 24th February 2021 by 3.51pm 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                           Orison Oliver 
84 
 
Twitter 
Twitter is a free social networking micro blogging service that allows 
registered members to broadcast short post called ‘tweets’. Twitter 
account users can broadcast tweets and follow other users.22 Recently 
the Director General of the National Youth Service corps Brigadier 
General Shuaibu Ibrahim while addressing staffs of NYSC before the 
commencement of their 2021 senior staff promotion examination at 
the public service institute in Abuja stated that, “the scheme would 
continue to tap the potentials of Corps members and harness it for socio-
economic development.”23 He said that there was need to consolidate on 
the relevance of the scheme and also expand its frontiers for societal 
growth. This statement was tweeted on the NYSC twitter handle.24 
 
Impact of Twitter 
The statement of the D.G which states that “We must tap into the 
potentials of Corps members because they have talents.” Immediately 
had a positive impact, it served as a moral boaster to some of the Corps 
members who immediately re–twitted their excitement on the NYSC 
twitter handle.25Here, we can see the powerful impact such statement 
has on the youth, it will continue to serve as boaster to the moral of 
some of the youths who would want to come out with new ideas and 
innovation for the betterment and development of Nigeria. 
 
U-Report 
U-Report is a free SMS tool used for community participation designed 
to address issues that the population (Society) cares about.26 The U-
Report is an innovation based and user centered social monitoring 
                                                           22www.whatis.techtarget.com/definition/twitteraccessed on 24th February 2021 by 
6.13pm 23 Mobile.twitter.com/officialnysc/ accessed on the 24th February 2021 by 3:15 pm 24 Ibid 25Ibid. 26 Nigeria. U-Report.In/Join. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Media for Socio-Economic... 
85 
 
platform which is designed to strengthen community led development, 
citizen engagement and positive change.27The National Youth Service 
Corps has been using the U-Report to send SMS containing important 
information about events and issues that concerns Nigeria’s interest 
and development, SMS alerts are usually sent to Corps members and 
the general public. According to the Nations newspaper of 24th October, 
2017 with the headline “NYSC to enlist 100,000 U-Reporters in Niger”, 
the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) has mobilized its members in 
Niger state to enlist 100,000 people on the U-Report platform.28  
According to Sunday Ajah,; while he was serving at Kebbi state he was 
enrolled into the U-Report and he has continued to receive SMS about 
developments occurring in Nigeria. Example of the type of messages he 
has received the COVID-19 pandemic. The message educates himself on 
how to protect him from contracting the Virus.29 
 
Impact of U-Report 
Through this sensitization by NYSC using U-report the impact can be 
seen in the decline and reduction of Covid-19 cases, because the public 
were now educated and enlightened on how to use face mask, hand 
sanitizer and washing of hands to avoid contracting and spreading the 
virus. Helpline numbers to call when one suspects to have contract the 
virus were also sent via U-Report. 
 
Media Chat 
Media chat is usually a forum where various stake holders particularly 
Journalist are invited to discuss sundry issues of importance. In 
November, 2020 the Director General of the NYSC had a media chat. In 
attendance was the Director General of the Nigeria Center for Disease 
                                                           27 The Nation Newspaper, 24th October, 2017. 28The Nation Newspaper, 24th October, 2017. 29 Oral Interview with Sunday Ajah, 29 Years, Administrative Assistant, 
Interviewed at the AirForce Institute of Technology Faculty of Ground and 
Communication Engineering, on February 4, 2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                           Orison Oliver 
86 
 
Control (NCDC) Dr. Chikwe Ihekweaju, Chairman of the Nigeria Union 
of Journalists F.C.T Council Comrade Emmanuel Ogbeche and Vice 
Chairman Nigeria Institute of Public Relations (NIPR) Mr. Stanley 
Ogadigo who represented the NIPR Chairman. The Director General 
used the forum to intimate the public on the spread of COVID-19 in 
NYSC Camps of the Scheme resumes its suspended Orientation 
programme. 
The impact of such media chats is that, stakeholders in the Scheme are 
better informed about activities of the NYSC. 
 
Conclusion 
There are series of initiatives used by the NYSC in its partnership with 
the media to bring about development in Nigeria, One of such 
initiatives is the Millennium Development Goals framework that has 
been engrafted into the Community Development Service programmes, 
this programme covers programmes like the war against poverty 
(WAP), Family and Community Life Reorientation Programme and the 
MDGs Advocacy Creation Programme. But despite the commendable 
effort of both the media and NYSC towards attaining development via 
its partnership, there are series of problems that this partnership 
would need to work on to achieve the desired goal. First the amount of 
information available and the wideness of its distribution is an 
important aspect in the spread and smoothness of development, also 
understanding the cultural environment would go a long way in 
helping the effectiveness of how an information can be received by the 
society. The problem of language barrier is also there, since Nigeria is a 
multi-ethnic society; thus, it becomes difficult to effectively 
communicate and pass information and ideas to the general public 
effectively. Also due to the high rate of illiteracy in Nigeria it becomes 
difficult for the un-educated section of the populace to get information 
via newspaper and the internet, so there will be a need to apply the use 
of the local language in disseminating information to the public. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Media for Socio-Economic... 
87 
 
Funding as we are all aware is an essential resource for any project to 
have headway, due to the poor funding of some this programmes; some 
of them had to be suspended. Lack of access to social media by the poor 
section of the society, due to the cost of android phones and data had 
made it difficult for the poor to access the internet, so most of them 
miss out on such news and events happening in the country. To be able 
to achieve development the Federal government of Nigeria needs to 
shift its total focus on oil, and pay attention on the youth because that is 
the greatest assets we have as a nation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                           Orison Oliver 
88 
 
Bibliography 
 
Interviews  
Esther K. Koza, 58 years, Director Programs, interviewed at Kaduna 
State Media Corporation, on February 25, 2021. 
Francis Y. Mai-Karfi, 49 Years, Programmes Supervisor, Interviewed at 
Kaduna State Media Corporation, on February 25, 2021.  
Msharili Musa, 56 years, Deputy Director Programmes Nigeria 
Television Authority (N.T.A  Kaduna Network Center), 
Interviewed at the  N.T.A  Kaduna Network Center on February 
12, 2021. 
Shola Ojo, 40 Years, Journalist of the Sun Newspaper, Interviewed at 
the Office of the National Union of Journalist Kaduna on March 
1, 2021. 
Suleiman Sani, 29 years, Nigeria Television Authority (N.T.A Kaduna 
Network Center) interviewed at N.T.A Kaduna Network Center, 
on February19, 2021. 
Sunday Ajah, 29 Years, Administrative Assistant, Interviewed at the Air 
Force Institute of Technology Faculty of Ground and 
Communication Engineering, on February 4, 2021. 
 
Published Works 
Ajayi J.F.A and Alagoa, E. A “Nigeria Before 1800: Aspects of Economic 
Developments and Intergroup relations.” 
Aremu Fatai Ayinde, “National Youth Service Corps Programme and 
Quest for National Intergration: Issues for Policy consideration, 
Ilorin,  Journal of Management and Social Sciences, Vol. 1, 2018, 
p. 282 
Audu, Bem J. “The Foreign Media and Nigeria’s 2015 General Elections”, 
John T. Tsuwa and Elijah T. Ikpanor (eds) The 2015 General 
Elections in Nigeria: Emerging Issue, Abuja:Donafrique 
Publishers, 2017. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Media for Socio-Economic... 
89 
 
Okpeh O. Okpeh Jr. “Emerging Security Threats in Nigeria: Patterns and 
Implication on National Development” in S. Ibrahim (Ed.s) 
Defence, Security, Economy and Development in Nigeria, London: 
Bahiti and Dalila Publishers, Vol. 1, 2017. 
Onwumah, Anthony C.  “Communal and Ethno-Religious Crises and 
their Implications for National Development in Nigeria”, In 
Developing Country Studies www.iiste.orgISSN 2224-607X 
(Paper) ISSN 2225-0565 (Online)Vol.4, No.17, 2014. 
Osisioma B.C Nwolise, “Media Correspondents, Security Agents 
Relations and The Issues of Nigeria’s National Security,” in 
Ray A. Udeajah, Broadcasting and politics in Nigeria 1963-2003, Enugu: 
SNAAP Press LTD, 2004. 
Rodney, Walter How Europe Underdeveloped Africa, Abuja: Panaf  
Publishing Inc. 1972. 
Scott Straus and Barry Driscoll, International Studies; Global Forces, 
Interactions, and Tensions, Los Angeles: SAGE Publications Inc., 
2019. 
Toure Kazah Toure, “Transcending Myths and Mystification Challenges 
of Ethnic and Religious Conflicts In Northern Nigeria in the 21st 
Century,” A Paper Presented at the 13th CODERSRIA General 
Assembly on the Theme: Africa and the Challenges of the 21st 
Century, Rabat, Morocco, from 5-9 December, 2011. 
Usman Yusuf Bala and Alkasum Abba, “The Misinterpretation of 
Nigeria: the Facts and Figures,” Kaduna. 
Wilbur Schramm, “Mass Media  and National Development,” Standford: 
Standford University Press, UNESCO, 1964. 
 
Internet Sources  
Htpp//www. Aljazirahnews.com/don’t-use-social-media-to-promote-
disunity-nysc-D.G-tells-corp-members 
Htpp//www.emporiumreports.com.ng/nysc-dg-meets-media-
executives-others-as-orientation-resumes/  
Htpp//www. Mobile.twitter.com/officialnysc 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                           Orison Oliver 
90 
 
Htpp//www. NITDA. GOV.NG/partnership-with-nitda-will-checkmate-
the-spread-of-fake-news-on-social-media-dg-nysc/ 
Htpp//www. NYSC Face-book Page 
Htpp//www. The Nation Newspaper.com 
Htpp//www. U-Report.In/Join 
Htpp//www.NYSC.gov.ng/aboutscheme/html 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Development Partners in Nigeria 
91 
 
    66 66     
 
 
 
 
National Youth Service Corps and Development 
Partners in Nigeria 
 
 
Kukwen Andetsiva Joseph 
 
 
Introduction 
The origin of the National Youth Service Corps  can be traced to events 
which culminated in the Nigerian Civil war 1967 – 1970. The then 
government of General Yakubu Gowon came up with post war or post 
conflict peace building measures best captured in his three (3) Rs of 
Reconciliation, Rehabilitation, and Reconstruction. The need for 
National cohesion led to the emergence of National Youth Service 
Corps. Being a military regime which depends on decrees and edicts in 
administering Nigeria, the scheme came into effect by Decree No. 24 of 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                        Kukwen A. Joseph 
92 
 
22 nd May, 1973.1 The whole essence of the NYSC is to encourage the 
development of communities and the promotion of National unity. The 
objectives of the scheme were contained or captured in Decree No. 51 
of 16th June, 1993 which include among other things.  
• To develop the virtue of discipline in Nigerian youths; through 
hard work and patriotism as well as loyalty to Nigeria in 
whatever circumstances;  
• To boast the morale of the Nigerian youths, by affording them 
the opportunities to learn the great ideals of national 
achievement, as well as social and cultural development.  
• To prepare Nigerian youths psychologically through various 
training which will enable them take tasks in line with Nigeria’s 
national interest.  
• To develop that bond among Nigerian youth which will 
promote national unity by ensuring that youths are assigned to 
jobs outside their state of origin, all groups or groupings in the 
scheme should have a national outlook as well as exposing the 
youths to other cultures in the country. 
• To prepare Nigerian youths who have gone through the scheme 
to seek career opportunities around the country, a situation 
which promotes movement and availability of labour.  
• To encourage employers to identify and hire qualified Nigerians 
irrespective of their background and  
• To develop in Nigerians youth the spirit of being self-reliant.2  
 
Development Strategy of NYSC  
Having identified the essence of the national youth service scheme 
which harps on the development of various communities by the youth 
as well as to foster National cohesion, the Scheme has gone into 
partnership with development partners in order to actualize this 
                                                           1 NYSC “Hand Book: Background to the National youth Service Corps Scheme” 
NYSC online 2 Ibid p.219 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Development Partners in Nigeria 
93 
 
vision. The scheme has devised and developed avenues through which 
such partnership will be beneficial in the pursuit of Nigeria’s national 
interest. Two programmes of the scheme best captures the 
development drive of the National Youth Service Corps , the Skills 
Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) as well as the 
Community Development Service (CDS). What this means is that, the 
scheme seek to pursue two prong development strategies which entails 
the development of the skills among the Nigerians youths which will 
prepare them for the development of the various communities in which 
they find themselves. The Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship 
Development (SAED) programme was created in 2012 to tame the 
rising tide of youth unemployment in Nigeria. The department is 
saddled with the responsibility of sensitizing Corps member as well as 
affording them practical knowledge on entrepreneurship and self-
employment.  
This is done through collaboration with both the public and private 
sectors. The programme aims at promoting self-reliance in the minds of 
Nigerian youths by equipping them with knowledge both theoretical 
and practical on entrepreneurship. This when put to use will in-turn 
boasts economic development and curb the menace of unemployment. 
The SAED training which begins during the Orientation course runs 
through the service year based on the learning module of the trainers. 
The National youth service Corps  programme on skills acquisition 
focuses on twelve major business areas which include agro-allied, 
culture and tourism, food processing and preservation, ICT, 
construction, environment, power and energy, education, film and 
photography, cosmetology, beautification as well as automobile.3  
Another strategy of the National Youth Service Corps to ensure 
development is through the Community Development Service (CDS). 
                                                           3Youth policy box “national Youth Service Corp – Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship 
Development (NYSC - SAED) Nigeria” Youth policy tool box online   
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                        Kukwen A. Joseph 
94 
 
This is a component of the National Youth Service Corps which affords 
Corps members the opportunity to work with local communities to 
promote self-reliance by systematically identifying and executing 
development projects and programmes which improves the socio-
economic development of the host communities. Corps members are 
assigned to a particular Community Development Service (CDS) group 
as his/her group CDS. While personal (CDS) project or programme, is 
optional for Corps members who show interest. Attendance for group 
CDS is once in a week, while the remaining four days are to be spent in 
the place of primary assignment.4 This component of national youth 
service Corps  has certain objectives which includes improving rural 
community life; Instilling entrepreneurial spirit among Corps 
members; using rural conditions as a ground for developing among 
youths the ideals and capacities for leadership, endurance, selflessness, 
community service, national service, patriotism and creativity; 
exposing Corps  members to the diverse traditions and customs of the 
host communities; providing avenues for Corps to develop ideas and 
turn those ideas into tangible achievements thereby reducing reliance 
on foreign technology as well as encourage the use of local raw 
materials in the execution of projects; Turning the enormous skills and 
talents of Corps  members into an effective machinery of change in our 
rural communities; Corps  members are afforded the opportunity to 
learn on the job; To provide complementary service in our National 
development activities, by developing the entrepreneurial skills of 
rural dwellers for self-reliance, through the use of appropriate 
technology adopted National Youth Service Corps; inculcating the 
virtue of tradition of dignity of labour and productivity; To complement 
the activities of government at all levels in the drive towards national 
development.5 
                                                           4 ABC of Community Development Service  5 Muhammad ABdullahi and Al CHikaji “Issues in Community Development 
Service Schemes of Nigeria, National Youth Service Corps and its relevance to 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Development Partners in Nigeria 
95 
 
The scheme also categorized the Community Development Service 
(CDS) to include the following; 
a) Group CDS: This entails community development service where 
Corps  members are expected to use one day in a week for this 
category of community development service. Here Corps  members 
are exempted from duties in their places of Primary Assignment on 
such days. Such days are set aside for the execution of projects and 
programmes that will enhance the standard of livingof host 
communities. 
b) Personal CDS: In this category of Community Development Service, 
Corps  members can execute project or programme in their host 
communities at individual level; based onthe felt needs. Corps  
members are at liberty to look out for areas where they can make 
individual impact in the community. It could be construction 
projects like building of toilets, bridges, classrooms etc. or social/ 
educational projects or programmes like establishment of libraries, 
extra mural classes, charity work, vocational training for 
empowerment of unemployed youths etc. Where a project or 
programme requires financial support, Corps  members are 
encouraged to source fund from other organization after getting 
approval from the management of the National Youth ServiceCorps  
c) Collaborative CDS: In this category, the scheme partners with 
National and non-government organization and other 
establishments to implement development programmes. The 
scheme signs MOU with the partners, clearly stating each partners 
roles/responsibilities.Corps  members are usually involved as 
volunteers on this programme. Collaborators in this type of 
Community Development Service (CDS) include Road Safety Group 
(Federal Road Safety Corps ), Reproductive Health and HIV/AIDs 
group, Anti-corruption (Economic and Financial Crimes 
                                                                                                                                       
Communiy Development” International Journal of Research in Science and 
Engineering Vol 2 No 6. p.216.  
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                        Kukwen A. Joseph 
96 
 
Commission and Independent Corrupt Practices and other related 
offences Commission) group, Service Delivery group (Attitudinal 
Change, Rebranding), Sustainable Development Goals, Medical and 
Health Services Group (Red Cross, Breast Without Spot, Polio Plus 
etc), Drug Free and Quality Control Group (National Drug Law 
Enforcement Agency, National Agency for Food and Drugs 
Administration and Control, Standard Organization of Nigeria) etc. 
 
The Role of Development Partners in the Support for NYSC Scheme 
in Nigeria 
In order to effectively pursue its developmental goals as captured by 
the two components of Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship 
Development (SAED) as well as the Community Development Service, 
the National Youth Service Corps has ventured into partnership with 
both public and private organizations. These partners are here referred 
to as development partners. And their role in the pursuit of the 
development strides of the National Youth Service Corps will be 
discussed.  
One of the most visible roles of the development partners of the 
National Youth Service Corps can be seen from the area of financing or 
funding. Most critical to any need for development is the availability of 
funds to help propel such development. Cooperate financial entities 
have partnered the NYSC in order to make available funds as start-up 
packs or packages  for  business plans of Corps  members or funds to 
grow already existing business ventures. For instance in 2019 Unity 
Bank came up with a financial package to help the business initiative of 
Corps members. The initiative was named ‘’corpreneurship’’. It was 
coined from the words “Corper” and “Entrepreneurship.” The 
corpreneurship challenge was a modest entrepreneurship 
development initiative aimed at developing the entrepreneurial 
capacities of youth Corps  members during their one year compulsory 
service to the nation. The first phase of the partnership between the 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Development Partners in Nigeria 
97 
 
mid-tier lender and the Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship 
Development (SAED) programme of the National Youth Service Corps 
was held in camps like Lagos, Abuja, Edo and Ogun state, though the 
business pitch took place in only two states. The winner of the 
challenge in Lagos got five hundred thousand naira (500,000) for 
pitching an online clothing store for women’s wear. While the first and 
second runner up went home with three hundred thousand naira 
(300,000)and two hundred naira (200,000) respectively. It is worthy to 
state here that in 2018, youth unemployment reached record level of 
38% in the second quarter and dropped slightly to 36.5% in the third 
quarter. The bank came up with this initiative to encourage and 
develop entrepreneurship which is one of the ways to address the 
problem of youth unemployment.6 
But by far the most generous financial packages to fund the 
development strides of the National Youth Service Corps , comes from 
the Central Bank of Nigeria. The Central Bank of Nigeria has developed 
a lot of funding packages for the benefits of youths across the country. 
One of such is the Youth Entrepreneurship Development programme 
(YEDP).7 This programme was launched in March, 2016 to leverage the 
creative capabilities and resourcefulness of Nigerian youths to achieve 
high level economic development. This was in recognition of the youth 
as agents of economic recovery and diversification. Data from the 
Nigerian Bureau of Statistics in the third (3rd) quarter of 2015, suggest 
that out of the 36.3 million, which represents 48.% of Nigerian work 
force, 13.6 million or 37.7% of them were either unemployed or 
underemployed. There was the need to address this situation in view of 
the bright ideas and big dreams among youths who were constrained 
                                                           6Segun Adams “Unity Bank, NYSC SAED Partnership to promote Youth 
Enterprise” Business Day Nov. 25, 2019 7Central Bank of Nigeria “Youth Entrepreneurship Development Programme 
(YEDP)” Central Bank of Nigeria 
   Guidelines P.1 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                        Kukwen A. Joseph 
98 
 
by finance. The aim of this initiative is to address the triple issues of 
insufficiency, high cost, and inadequate term of capital usually faced by 
youth entrepreneurs and start-ups. This package comes with three (3) 
million naira facility for eligible youth or ten (10) million naira for 
groups of 3-5 youths. The interest rate is pegged at nine (9%) per 
annum. The tenure largely depends on the complex nature of the 
project and cash flow, but is between one (1) year for working capital 
loan and three (3) years for term loan. The package also requires 
collateral which are academic and NYSC certificates, third party 
guarantees and other movable assets.8 
Though the target beneficiaries are members of the National Youth 
Service Corps, (NYSC) non NYSC members are also captured. The 
programme shows that areas of funding include start-ups and 
expansion projects in agriculture like (fish farming, poultry snail 
farming), cottage industry, creative industry (tourism, arts and crafts) 
and information and communication technology ICT etc.9 But it is 
worthy to state here that the financial packages or funding deployed by 
the Central Bank of Nigeria are often times routed through commercial 
banks. For instance, the Central Bank of Nigeria adopted Heritage Bank 
as the sole pilot bank for the Youth Innovate Entrepreneurship 
Development Programme (YIEDP). This package deployed by the 
Central Bank of Nigeria has actually created funding opportunities for 
the National Youth Service Corps developmental strides.10 
Bank of Industry is also one of the partners which propel National 
Youth Service Corps development objectives in Nigeria.11  The Bank of 
Industry in Nigeria is one of the development partners which make 
available funds to the NYSC scheme. For instance, the Bank of Industry 
                                                           8 Ibid  9 Ibid 10 Ibid 11Dayo Adetiloye Business Hub “Apply for 3 million loan from Heritage Bank for 
Youths” Dayo Adetiloye Business Hub 22nd February, 2021 online 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Development Partners in Nigeria 
99 
 
came up with the Graduate Entrepreneurship Fund Programme in 
2018. The programme was designed to encourage entrepreneurship 
among serving members of the National Youth Service Corps. The 
Graduate Entrepreneurship Fund makes available loans of up to two 
(2) million naira at zero (0%) interest rate to support enterprises and 
potentially viable business ideas. The Graduate Entrepreneurship Fund 
which is a two (2) billion naira package seeks to encourage serving 
members of the National youth service Corps  to became employers of 
labour by going into business as against being job seekers; check the 
entrepreneurship capacity gap among serving NYSC members who are 
expected to come up with bankable business plans after a three day 
capacity building programme; engender financial inclusion by “de-
risking” members of the National Youth Service Corps  thereby making 
them eligible for loans ranging from five hundred thousand (500,000) 
naira to two (2) million naira which will be provided by the bank of 
industry; ensure that the business of the eventual beneficiaries are 
sustained through effective monitoring by the National Youth Service 
Corp Directorate and the Bank of Industry.12  
Another role played by development partners of the National Youth 
Service Corps is in the area of providing technical support or assistance 
to the scheme. One of the development partners which offer technical 
support to the National Youth Service Corps is the International 
Laboaur Organisation (ILO). This can be seen from the 
institutionalization of the use of International Labour Organization’s 
Start and Improve Your Business (SIYB)curriculum in their training 
programme. The Start and Improve Your Business (SIYB) is a system of 
inter related training packages and support materials for small scale 
entrepreneurs to start and grow their business. It seeks to improve the 
viability of Micro, Small and Medium enterprises (MSMES) through 
                                                           12Opportunities for Africa “Bank of Industry (2 billion) Graduate Entrepreneurship 
(GEF) Programme 2018 for National Youth Service Corps Members” 
Opportunities for Africa January 17 2018. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                        Kukwen A. Joseph 
100 
 
management principles suitable for developing countries. The 
International Labour Organization (ILO) assists Business Development 
Service (BDS) organizations to develop the skills required to 
implement, monitor, manage and finance the training programme and 
build a training system which is sustainable at the national level 
thereby contributing to sustainable economic development and 
employment creation.13  
Another funding agency that also support the NYSC programme is the 
Start and Improve Your Business (SIYB) which emerged from a 
management training package known as “Look After Your Firm” which 
was developed in Sweden in the late 1970s, through the Sweden 
Employers’ Federation for local and medium entrepreneurs. By 1977, 
the Swedish International Development Agency funded a project for the 
International Labour Organization where documents which portray the 
situation of entrepreneurs in the developing countries were developed. 
And that package was named Improve Your Business (IYB).  
In the early 1990s the International Labour Organisation‘s technical 
activities in the Fiji islands came up with another training package 
known as the Start Your Business (SYB) aimed at addressing potential 
start-ups. This programme soon gained International recognition and 
grew as the Generate Your Business Idea (GYB) was developed. And 
they all use the SIYB Business Game for motivation and learning where 
real life business situations are simulated. By the late 1990s the 
International Labour Organization (ILO) decided to bring all training 
packages and other associated management tools together in a 
common frame work called “Start and Improve Your Business” (SIYB) 
programme.  
                                                           13Ibid P. 1  
12. Opportunities for Africa “Bank of Industry (2 Billion Naira) Graduate 
Entrepreneurship Fund (GEF) Programme 2018 for National Youth Service Corps 
(NYSC) members” opportunities for Africa  January 17, 2018    
     
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Development Partners in Nigeria 
101 
 
The start and improve your Business training package is planned in 
separate training packages include the Generate Your Business Idea 
(GYB), Start Your Business (SYB) Improve Your Business (IYB) and 
Expand Your Business (EYB) and are all developed to adapt to the 
progressive stages of business development. Generate Your Business 
Idea (GYB) is meant for people who would like to start a business, and 
who through training, develop a concrete business idea ready for 
implementation. A GYB course typically lasts 2-3 days. Start Your 
Business (SYB) is for would be entrepreneurs who want to start a small 
business and already have concrete business idea. The programme is a 
combination of training, field work and after training support, and 
helps participants assess their readiness to start a business and to 
prepare a business plan and evaluate its viability. SYB courses are 
usually delivered in 5 days. Improve Your Business (IYB) introduces 
already practicing entrepreneurs to principles of business. Its six 
modules which include (marketing, costing, buying and stock control, 
record keeping, planning for your business, and people and 
productivity) can be taught individually or all combined in a full course. 
If the full course using all modules is delivered, its duration is 
approximately 7 days. Expand Your Business (EYB) provides growth 
oriented small and medium enterprises with the practical tools for 
business growth, assisting them through training and non-training 
interventions with a focus on business strategy to expand their 
business.  
The main output from the training programme is a business growth 
plan which includes chapters marketing, operations, and human 
resources, financial and strategic management. These chapters can also 
be used as stand-alone training and support products. If the full content 
of EYB is delivered, its duration is 1-2 weeks; like for the shorter 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                        Kukwen A. Joseph 
102 
 
courses above, the course delivery can be spread over a longer time 
span (for instance 1-2 days per week over several months)14  
The start and improve your Business program has an institutional 
approach and a multiplier strategy. After a survey of business 
opportunities in a given country or region which calls for business 
management training solutions, the International Labour Organization 
builds the capacity of indigenous or local training providers to ensures 
the implementation of SIYB training and other related activities. It also 
provides International Training and Certificates to a group of Start and 
Improve Your Business Master Trainer who will assume leadership and 
or ownership of the programme. The whole essence of the multiplier 
strategy deployed by the International Labor Organization is to ensure 
sustainability and quality assurance at the national level. 
At global level, coordinating and monitoring of SIYB activities in 
different countries falls under the supervision of the SIYB Global 
Coordination Team located in the small and medium unit of the 
Enterprises Department at International Labour Organization 
headquarters. 
   
Its main functions include the development and certification/licensing 
of Master Trainers; maintaining the quality of SIYB materials through 
updates of international versions and quality control of local adaption 
efforts; and leading monitoring and evaluation efforts through the 
development and maintenance of tools for tracking and assessing SIYB 
activities globally. Overall country coordination of the introduction and 
implementation of SIYB is often initially handled by an in-country 
International Labour Organisation office or project or, in some 
instances, by a National Public or Private Organisation involved in SME 
                                                           14International Labour Organization “Building Entrepreneurship skills to increase 
youth employability in Nigeria” International Labour Organization 22 February, 
2016 online   
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Development Partners in Nigeria 
103 
 
development to which International Labour Organisation has delegated 
this function. Once SIYB has been introduced in a country, in cases 
where the coordination of activities was initially carried out by the 
International Labour Organisation, this responsibility is gradually 
handed over to a national organization with which the International 
Labour Organisation signs an agreement. In some countries, SIYB 
association has been set up to perform this role. In terms of training 
implementation, SIYB Trainers are based in local organizations which 
regularly provide services to MSMEs; in the SIYB system these 
organizations are called “Training Service Providers” (TSPs).  
The management of the TSPs where the Trainer is based, signs an 
agreement with the SIYB coordinating body in which the use of the 
programme and outreach numbers are defined before the Trainer is 
trained. SIYB Master Trainers, who are selected from Trainers and 
further trained and certified by the International Labour Organisation, 
have a key role in planning, organizing and conducting Training of 
Trainers (TOT) programmes and follow-up measures. They are also 
responsible for marketing SIYB programme, selecting new partner 
organizations, quality control of SIYB programme, material adaptation 
and conducting SIYB impact assessments and evaluations at national 
level. In addition to these organizations, other organizations may be 
involved, depending on country context. For instance, the printing or 
distribution of materials may be delegated to a particular organization 
in a country. 
The introduction of SIYB in country starts with making contact with 
SIYB global coordination Team, which will authorize the process and 
also provide guidance on the steps involved, resources required, and 
other operational matters. Once the institution leading the in-country 
process has the agreement of the SIYB Global Coordinating Team, the 
actual introduction of SIYB will normally include the following steps:  
1. Assessing the market for SIYB: an assessment needs to be 
made of the demand for any supply of business management 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                        Kukwen A. Joseph 
104 
 
training in the context at hand, so as to determine whether 
there is sufficient (paying) demand for the programme, 
whether there are other similar or competing offers, what the 
local SIYB programme should look like in terms of content so as 
to respond to the needs potential beneficiaries, and what 
implementation arrangements would work best in specific 
context;  
2. Selecting partner organizations and defining partnership: 
based on the results of the market, assessment partner 
organizations are evaluated and selected for both the delivery 
of training (TSPs) as well as for ensuring other supporting 
functions such as materials production and distribution.  
3. Developing Trainers: the next step is normally the selection of 
potential SIYB Trainers from among the trainers affiliated with 
a TSP partner organization. Once selected, the candidates will 
undergo a Trainer development cycle including taking part in 
formal trainings in a workshop setting as well as a practice 
period of conducting training, following which successful 
candidates are certified as SIYB Trainers. 
4. Developing Master Trainers: while international Master 
Trainers may be contracted to develop a first batch of trainers 
in a country it is usually desirable to have a group of Master 
Trainers in country to ensure higher level functions including 
the training of further trainers, marketing and monitoring 
activities. Master Trainer candidates are selected from among 
Trainers who have exhibited exemplary performance, and then 
undergo a Master Trainer development cycle, upon completion; 
successful candidates are certified as SIYB Master Trainers. The 
development of Master Trainers may take place early on in the 
process of introducing SIYB; in other cases, it may only happen 
once SIYB has been introduced and has been running for some 
time. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Development Partners in Nigeria 
105 
 
5. Adapting and distributing materials: Adaptations and 
translations of material may be needed for the sake of meeting 
the needs of the target groups. Whether the standard global 
materials are used or whether adapted materials are produced, 
in either case, printing and distribution arrangements will need 
to be defined at the country level in collaboration with the SIYB 
Global Coordination Team. 
6. Roll out at entrepreneur level: Once a pool of Trainers (and 
Master Trainers) has been certified and training materials are 
ready for use, roll out at entrepreneur level can take place. 
Trainers (and the organization they belong to) have a key role 
in marketing, preparing for and conducting SIYB trainings and 
providing follow up support and monitoring the final 
beneficiaries. 
7. M and E: The monitoring of SIYB activities is critical for 
ensuring its effectiveness. Once SIYB has been introduced, apart 
from periodic evaluation or impact assessments which may be 
undertaken, SIYB is continuously monitored at the level of 
Trainers, Master Trainers and entrepreneurs. The standard 
SIYB monitoring and evaluation tools including an online 
system and, the SIYB gateway therefore need to be introduced 
from the outset and reporting lines need to be defined. 
8. Planning for sustainability: When SIYB is launched in a 
country, it is important to start planning ways of sustaining 
SIYB activities in the long term, beyond its initial introduction, 
and to design measures for ensuring adequate institutional 
capacity, technical quality and cost recovery. 
While market assessment will normally always take place at the 
beginning, the phases of selecting partner organizations, adapting 
materials or determining distribution arrangements may take place in 
different sequence. Many of these processes will also continue beyond 
the introductory phase. For instance, once an SIYB programme has 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                        Kukwen A. Joseph 
106 
 
been set up in a country, it will most likely continue to train new 
Trainers throughout its duration in addition to the first batch of 
Trainers trained at the outset so as to scale up activity levels, or it may 
opt to develop Master Trainers in order to enhance quality and to 
promote and expand the programme.15 
Additionally, the International Labour Organization ILO was able to 
train forty (40) officials of the National Youth Service Corps as Master 
Trainers of Start and Improve Your Business (SIYB) in 2018. And over 
the years the International Labour Organization (ILO) has continued to 
play active role as development partners of the National Youth Services 
Corps (NYSC) particularly through the Skills Acquisition and 
Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) programme. Some of the 
International Labour Organization (ILO) contributions include: 
Developing Frame Work for the implementation of Skill Acquisition and 
Entrepreneurship; Developing a Curriculum on Entrepreneurship 
Development in various camps; Providing Funds for the First 
debriefing meeting on Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship 
Programme Staff from across the country and partners in May, 2012; 
Providing Capacity Building Awareness to Skills Acquisition and 
Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) Officials, like the sponsoring of 
nine (9) officials to Turin, Morocco and Zambia since 2013; 
mobilisation of funds, materials and technical support for SAED 
programme; campaign for entrepreneurship development and Youth 
Empowerment in Nigeria 16 Closely related to this is provision of 
specialized trainings for Corps  members by some development 
partners. One of such development partners which provides specialized 
training for the National Youth Service Corps is the Institute for 
Tourism Professional of Nigeria (ITPN). It is a National Certification 
                                                           15International Labour Organization “Building Entrepreneurship skills to increase 
youth employability in Nigeria” International Labour Organization 22 February, 
2016 online     16 Ibid 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Development Partners in Nigeria 
107 
 
and Professional body which trains members on hospitality, travel, 
tourism and allied occupations in Nigeria; with members both in the 
public and private sectors as well as non-profit sectors.  
The primary duty of the body is to ensure the highest standard 
professional competence, set professional standard and provide 
development opportunities through various means which include 
qualification, training courses and events. The institute for Tourism 
Professionals of Nigeria ITPN-NYSC Hospitality and Tourism and 
proficiency certificate is a six (6) months free lecture programme for 
Corps members in all parts of the country. In has as its main objective 
to support the National Youth Services Corps with the development of 
hospitality and tourism by honing the skills of Corps members and 
making those who want to build professional career successful. 17 
It is important to note that hospitality and tourism industry remains 
one of the largest industries in the world with employment 
opportunities. Some of the unique features of the industry are that it is 
labour intensive, it creates job per unit of capital invested, it has the 
capacity to accommodate multiple skills, and it also creates 
opportunities for entrepreneurs across the hospitality and tourism 
value chain. As a way of curriculum development the ITPN-NYSC 
Hospitality and Tourism Proficiency Certificate (PHCT) is structured in 
the following manner which includes five modules:- 
a. PCHT 101: The contemporary Hospitality and Tourism Industry 
b. PCHT 102: The Hospitality and Tourism Business Tool Kit 
c. PCHT 103: Leadership and Management for Service Industries 
d. PCHT 104: Entrepreneurship and Small Business Management  
e. PCHT 105: Concepts and Innovations in Hospitality and 
Tourism 
At the end of which members will qualify for a Graduate Members 
Certificate and or Proficiency Certificate in Hospitality and Tourism 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                        Kukwen A. Joseph 
108 
 
(PCHT).17 Another development partner which provides specialized 
training for National Youth Services Corps members is the National 
Institute of Management (NIM chartered). The National Institute of 
Management (chartered) began its programme with the National Youth 
Service Corps in 2005. It is also a six (6) months free lectures 
programme for Corps members with a nationwide coverage.  
Its objective is continual support to the scheme through the horning of 
management and Entrepreneurial Skills of Corps members, in order to 
make them employable and self reliant. The curriculum of the National 
Institute of Management (chartered) includes courses like Management 
Principles and Practice, Business Communication, Project Management, 
Entrepreneurship, Corporate Law and Business Ethics. Successful 
candidates are formally admitted as members of the institute through 
an induction programme. They are also issued two (2) certificates 
which include Graduate Membership Certificate and Proficiency 
Certificate in Management.18  
Development Partners of the National Youth Services Corps do also 
offer Interventionist assistance to aid the development objectives of the 
scheme. While it is true that the Central Bank of Nigeria has provided 
financial backing to the National Youth Service Scheme as a 
development partner, the banks role can be viewed in the broader 
perspective of intervention. The bank being alarmed by the 
performance of the Nigeria economy has sought to intervene in critical 
areas to achieve growth and development of the economy. For instance, 
the performance of the Nigerian economy as revealed by the National 
Bureau of Statistics shows that in the third quarter of 2015, out of the 
36.3 million youths which represent 48% of Nigerian labour force, 13.6 
                                                           17 Institute of Tourism Professionals of Nigeria “ITPN-NYSC Proficiency 
Programme” Institute for Tourism Professionals of Nigeria 22nd February, 2021 
online  18ChiamakaAdindu “NIM Partners NYSC to train Corps members in Professional 
Course” Calabar NYSC News 22nd February, 2021 online  
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Development Partners in Nigeria 
109 
 
million or 37.7% of them were either unemployed or under-
employed.19 
This worrying situation could not be allowed to subsist as it portends 
dangers where youth with great ideas and big dreams have been held 
back due to lack of fund. This youth unemployment called for 
intervention by the Central Bank of Nigeria. This came through the Skill 
Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development which is domiciled in 
the National Youth Service Corps. 
One of such intervention came in the form of 2.5 billion which the 
Central Bank of Nigeria began to disburse to members of the National 
Youth Service Corp to address the challenge of youth unemployment. 
This intervention which was launched on March 15,2016 was to assist 
the Youth Corps  members’ actualise their business ideas. This initiative 
was called the Youth Entrepreneurship Development Programme. This 
is part of central banks effort to deepen credit delivery to address the 
challenges of unemployment, promote entrepreneurial spirits among 
Nigerian youths and enhance the spread of small and medium 
enterprises. The programme is aimed at harnessing the 
entrepreneurial spirit of the teeming youths by providing timely and 
affordable facility to implement business ideas. This is to ensure 
sustainable mechanism to stimulate employment, contribute to non-oil 
Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and address the challenge of youth 
restiveness. The objectives of the Youth Entrepreneurship 
Development Programme are to harness the entrepreneurship skills 
and innovative capacities of youths; ease access to finance for youth 
entrepreneurs through a well structured business model; stimulate the 
flow of finance to start-up enterprises; encourage job creation; increase 
the contribution of the non-oil sector to Gross Domestic Product (GDP) 
and promote diversification of the economy. There are two types of 
                                                           19 Central Bank of Nigeria “Youth Entrepreneurship Development Programme” 
Central Bank of Nigeria 18thFebrary 2021 online 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                        Kukwen A. Joseph 
110 
 
facilities and they include Term loan and working capital. The facility 
will not be used for the refinancing of projects. In terms of tenure, loans 
have a maximum tenure of 36 months depending on the complexity of 
the project. Tenure of each project shall be determined in relation to 
cash flow; working capital facility of 12 months with a maximum roll 
over 12 months subject to approval; the programme allows for 
moratorium of 3 months in the loan repayment schedule and qualified 
projects for moratorium shall be determined on case by case basis. The 
2.5 billion was drawn from the 220 billion Micro Small and Medium 
Enterprises Development (MSMES) fund. This intervention was created 
to provide low cost, long termed funds to MSMES to build their capacity 
for employment creation, economic growth and development. The 
Youth Entrepreneurship Development Programme is aimed at creating 
one million jobs and to develop the entrepreneurial capacity of the 
youth as well as to make available a facility of not more than 3 million 
naira to finance and operate a business.20  
 The focus of this intervention programme are start-ups and expansion 
projects which covers agricultural value chain like (fish, farming, 
mining and solid minerals), cottage industry, arts and crafts, 
information and communications Technology (ICT) the initiative was 
also created to enable the Central Bank of Nigeria conserve huge 
foreign exchange which has been expended on importation of goods 
and services. The facility has modalities and include: loan amount shall 
be 3 million for a single obligor and 10 million for group projects jointly 
owned by 3-5 qualified beneficiaries on Interest Rate, lending banks 
shall access the fund at two percent (2%) from the Central Bank of 
Nigeria and disburse to qualified candidates at a maximum rate of nine 
percent (9%) per annum, including all charges; funding shall come 
from the Micro Small and Medium Enterprises Development Fund 
(MSMEGF); NYSC Discharge Certificate shall be the collateral from 
                                                           20  Central Bank of Nigeria “Youth Entrepreneurship Development Programme” 
Central Bank of Nigeria 18thFebrary 2021 online 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Development Partners in Nigeria 
111 
 
beneficiaries; artisans are to use their School Leaving Certificate or 
Technical Certificate or approved Proficiency Certificate from National 
Board for Technical Education (NBTE); third party guarantors will also 
be provided as additional collateral; lending bank shall obtain at least 
one credit report on promoter(s) for all projects; the cost of training for 
beneficiaries will be shared between the Central Bank of Nigeria and 
the lending bank in a ratio of 50:50 or any other agreed ratio; in order 
to support start-ups and youth entrepreneurs by way of incentive, risk 
sharing on start-ups will be at 50:50 between the Central Bank of 
Nigeria and the lending bank; disbursement shall be in tranches and 
attached to project/ equipment financing to minimize fund diversion 
by beneficiaries; all movable collaterals used to secure the loan shall be 
registered on the National Collateral Registry (NCR) by the lending 
bank; within two weeks of loan repayment, the lending bank shall 
discharge all registered movable collaterals on the National Collateral 
Registry and notify the customer accordingly. 
The programme offers equal opportunity intervention in all respects, 
geo-political zone, gender, able and disabled etc; applicants will be pre-
qualified by lending bank using an online portal; pre-qualified 
applicants will undergo training before they can access the facility. 
Training will be handled by the Central Bank of Nigeria 
Entrepreneurship Development Centers (EDCs); pre-qualified 
applicants will submit their business proposal to the lending bank for 
scrutiny; successful applicants will submit loan application in a 
particular format to the lending bank; lending banks shall receive, 
process, approve and forward the request for the facility from 
successful candidates to the Central Bank of Nigeria; each request must 
be accompanied with the following: 
(a)  A business plan which clearly captures the financing plan, 
economic benefits etc 
(b)  Statement of affairs for start-ups and companies with less than 3 
years of existence 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                        Kukwen A. Joseph 
112 
 
(c)  Offer documents between the bank and the loan applicants 
(d)  Certificate of incorporation or registration of Business Name 
(e)  Brief on directors/ partners 
(f)  At least one credit report of the promoter/ entrepreneur. 
(g)  Proposed schedule of fund disbursement and repayment. 
(h)  Evidence of third party guarantee acceptable to the lending 
bank.21 
It is interesting to note that the National Youth Service Corps  Scheme 
Mobilise around three hundred (300,000) thousand graduates who 
partake in the mandatory one year National Service for graduate who 
are not above the age of thirty (30). 
Another development partner of the National Youth Services Corps 
(NYSC) which offers interventionist assistance to the scheme is the 
World Bank. The global financial institution is known to have 
intervened in several Youths Development Programme in Nigeria. One 
of such youth friendly intervention is the 150 million dollars set aside 
by the global financial institution to Nigeria. The focus of the 
intervention is on governance, non-oil growth and human 
development.  
The criteria for selection is based on what states requires, agreement 
with government, state level governance capability and commitment as 
well as geographical balance in all the six geopolitical zones and 
existing state programme. The strategy is to ensure that international 
assistance are targeted on the right priorities, and also allow 
development partners to coordinate in collaboration with the National 
Planning Commission, in order to avoid duplication and increase the 
impact of  the assistance. The coordinators of the programme were 
                                                           21Central Bank of Nigeria “Youth Entrepreneurship Development programme” Central 
Bank of Nigeria (YEDP) Guidelines P. 1  
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Development Partners in Nigeria 
113 
 
impressed by the connection of the Ministry of Youth Development by 
the Nigeria Government.22  
The World Bank through United Nations International Children Fund 
(UNICEF) also set aside one (1) billion dollars through an initiative 
called Generation Unlimited. This is to prepare the World’s 1.8 billion 
Young people to work and be engaged in profitable ventures. The target 
is to train Secondary School Students who will be trained for 
employment and entrepreneurship. This initiative was launched in 
order to engage the Youth in global progress towards growth, 
prosperity and stability, where the right skills and opportunities are 
created, for the youths to drive global growth and prosperity. It is also 
an important aspect of World Bank Group’s Human Capital Project 
where countries are mobilized to channel more investments toward 
improving people especially the youth.24 This World Bank investment is 
aimed at driving curriculum changes in formal education so that skills 
and knowledge are aligned with demands of Workplace, easy access to 
skill programme outside formal education both in peace time and crisis 
situation as well as areas which are susceptible to humanitarian needs, 
make effort to match job seekers with employment and 
entrepreneurship opportunities, preparing young people to be flexible 
and imbued with problems solving skills which they need to succeed as 
engaged citizens.23  
But one of the most visible interventions of the World Bank to National 
Youths Service Corps is the provision of decent and habitable 
accommodation for Corps members. This World Bank intervention to 
the Scheme came in to Oba Community in Ayete, Ibarapa North local 
government area of Oyo State. Corps members have been known to 
                                                           22Proshare “$150m grant: World Bank wants Nigerian youth empowered” Proshare, 22 nd 
February, 2021 online  23 Ibid 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                        Kukwen A. Joseph 
114 
 
reject serving in the community due to lack of decent and habitable 
accommodation. 
In order to address this challenge of accommodation, the Oyo State 
Government through the Oyo State Community and Social Development 
Agency in collaboration with the World Bank provided a ten (10) room 
accommodation to the Corps members serving in that community. This 
intervention went a long way in motivating the youth Corps  members 
in that community to put in more for the development of education in 
the community. The Baptist Secondary School, Ayete witnessed 
tremendous improvement as a there were improvement in the reading 
culture of students given that Corps member organised extra classes 
for the students.24  
 
Major Challenges Facing NYSC Scheme in Modern Times 
The growing insecurity in the country has also become a major 
challenge to the development drive of the National Youth Service Corps. 
Corps members on one year mandatory service have been caught up in 
indigenous, ethnic or political violence in various parts of Nigeria. This 
situation particularly the insurgency in the North East and armed 
banditry and kidnapping in the north western parts of Nigeria has been 
worrying. It will be recalled that at the peak of this insurgency Corps 
members were not posted to the North-East. This has denied the region 
of development which would have been brought to bear in the region 
through the partnership between the National Youth Service Corps and 
her development partners and which would have improved the 
economy through the Corps members in serving the communities 
during and after their service.  
 
 
 
 
                                                           24 Ibid 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Development Partners in Nigeria 
115 
 
Conclusion 
The National Youth Service Corps and her development partners have 
been making efforts to ensure the economic growth and development 
of Nigeria. This effort began since inception of the scheme over forty 
years ago. This can be seen from the measures developed which have 
evolved over the years. The scheme has been able to access finance or 
funds, technical supports as well intervention in critical areas of the 
economy to achieve the sole aim of development. However, the scheme 
has been beset with challenges which tend to undermine her 
development efforts. Such challenges include: the increasing rate of 
insecurity which the nation is witnessing, a situation which is not 
favourable for investments.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                        Kukwen A. Joseph 
116 
 
NOTES: 
 
1. NYSC “Hand Book: Background to the National youth Service 
Corps  Scheme” NYSC online 
2. Ibid  
3. Youth Policy Tool book “National Youth Service Corp-Skill 
Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (NYSC-SAED) 
Nigeria” Youth Policy Toolbox online. 
4. ABC of Community Development Service 
5. Muhammad Abdullahi and A.I Chikaji “Issues in Community 
Development Service Scheme of Nigeria’s National Youth 
Service Corps  and its Relevance to Community Development” 
International Journal of Research in Science and Engineering 
Vol. 2 No. 6, 2016 Pg. 219. 
6. Ibid, p.219 
7. Segun Adams “Unity Bank, NYSC SAED Partnership to promote 
Youth Enterprise” Business Day November, 25th 2019 online. 
8. Central Bank of Nigeria “Youth Entrepreneurship Development 
Programme (YEDP)” Central Bank of Nigeria Guideline P. 1 
9. Ibid p. 2 
10. Ibid p.1 
11. DayoAdetiloye Business Hub “Apply for 3 million loan from 
Heritage Bank for Youths” DayoAdetiloye Business hub 22nd 
February, 2021 online. 
12. Opportunities for Africa “Bank of Industry (2 Billion Naira) 
Graduate Entrepreneurship Fund (GEF) members” 
Opportunities for Africa January 17th 2018  
13. International Labour Organization “Building Entrepreneurship 
Skills to increase Youth employability in Nigeria” International 
Labour Organization 22nd February, 2016 online. 
14. International Labour Organization “Start and improve your 
Business Implementation Guide” International Labour 
Organization 22nd February, 2021 p. 2  
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Development Partners in Nigeria 
117 
 
15. Ibid, p.3 
16. International Labour Organization “NYSC seek ILOs Assistance 
to Consolidate Achievement” International Labour Organization 
12 th July, 2018 online. 
17. Institute for Tourism Professionals of Nigeria “ITPN-NYSC 
Proficiency programme” Institute for Tourism Professionals of 
Nigeria 22nd February, 2021 online 
18. Ibid 
19. ChiamakaAdindu “NIM Partner NYSC to Train Corps  Members 
in Professional Course” Calabar NYSC News 22nd February, 
2021 online 
20. Central Bank of Nigeria “Youth Entrepreneurship Development 
Programme” Central Bank of Nigeria 18th February, 2021 online 
21. Consumer Life “CBN” earmarks 2.5 billion as Business loan to 
NYSC members” Consumer Life, July,1st 2016 online 
22. Central Bank of Nigeria “Youth Entrepreneurship Development 
Programme” Central Bank of Nigeria (YEDP) Guidelines p.1 
23. Proshare “ $150m grant: World Bank wants Nigeria Youth 
Empowered” Proshare 22nd February, 2021 online  
24. Cynthia Egboboh “World Bank Partners UNICEF to promote 
Youth Empowerment in Nigeria” Business Day April, 9th 2019. 
25. Ibid 
26. Jeremiah Oke “NYSC members in Oyo Community land World 
Bank, Government on Accommodation” Daily Trust, 15th May, 
2019  
27. Good Governance Africa “Retooling Nigeria’s Youth Service 
Corps  to drive National Transformation” Good Governance 
Africa, October, 16th 2018 online 
28. Ibid 
29. ChukwuemekaOkafor and Kelechi Ani “The National Youth 
Service Corps  Programme and Growing Security threat in 
Nigeria” Africa Public Service Delivery and Performance Review 
Vol. 2 No. 2 PP. 149-164. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                     Francis Olisa Ikenna 
118 
 
    77 77    
    NYSC and the MDGs Programmes in Nigeria 
 
 
Francis Olisa Ikenna 
 
 
Introduction 
Nigeria is among countries in the world that are confronted with 
developmental challenges such as illiteracy, poverty, infant/maternal 
mortality, poor access to water and basic sanitations, gender 
discrimination, HIV/AIDS, malaria and many others. Interestingly, 
these challenges are not present only in Nigeria, but in many countries 
in the world. As a result, this has led to the need for the United Nations 
Organization (UNO) to map out strategies to help in bringing these 
setbacks to an end. The organization ratified the Millennium 
Declaration which resulted to the establishment of the Millennium 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the MDGs Programmes in Nigeria 
119 
 
Development Goals (MDGs) made up of eight (8) objectives in 
September, 2000. 
In Nigeria’s situation, for the objectives of the Millennium Development 
Goals to be attained successfully, all hands needed to be on deck to 
make it work. Ministries, Departments, Agencies and nongovernmental 
organisations and many more were involved in many MDGs 
programmes. Prominent among them is the National Youth Service 
Corps (NYSC), established by the Gowon-led administration in the year 
1973to mobilise Nigerian Youths (graduates) to get involved not only 
in engendering unity, peace and cohesion, but also to improve National 
Development.  
The NYSC has four (4) cardinal stages, which include the Orientation 
course, Primary Assignment, the Community Development Services 
(CDS) and the Winding-up/Passing-out. The CDS has sixteen (16) 
groups, and out of these groups, the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs) groups are one of the CDS groups that was created with the aim 
of contributing to the achievement of the MDGs for Nigeria. The NYSC 
was said to have made a lot of impact across communities in Nigeria. It 
is against this backdrop that this chapter seeks to examine the role of 
the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) in the implementation of the 
MDGs programmes in Nigeria. 
 
NYSC and the Community Development Service (CDS) Groups 
Community Development Service is among the four (4) cardinal 
programmes of the NYSC and one of the major parts of the NYSC 
activities. The main aim of the CDS group is to help develop 
communities across Nigeria while assisting Corps members to gain 
familiarity with the culture of the host community. Simply the modes of 
operation of CDS groups is to make developmental contributions to 
communities ranging from sensitization down to provision of basic 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                     Francis Olisa Ikenna 
120 
 
needs paramount to the host community.1 This aspect under the NYSC 
scheme is where corps members in the course of their service period 
contribute positively towards the development of host communities 
where they are posted. The vision of the Community Development 
Service department is to harness the great potentials of corps members 
for the interest of the host community and ultimately national 
development. The mission also is to enhance the living standards of 
host communities of corps members at all times. And the goal is to 
improve the economic, health, political & socio-cultural conditions of 
host communities.2  
Some of the objectives of the CDS are; to make positive impact in the 
lives of people living in rural communities; to develop the spirit of 
entrepreneurship in every Corps members to make use of challenges of 
rural development as an avenue to indoctrinate the ideals and 
capacities for leadership, endurance, selflessness, community service, 
national service, patriotism and creativity; to harness the huge talents 
and skills of corps-members into an effective machinery of change in 
rural communities; to provide complimentary service in national 
development activities; by ensuring that the under-privileged 
population learn basic techniques for self-help through the appropriate 
technology concept being promoted by the NYSC; and also to 
complement the activities of the federal, state and local levels in the 
stride towards national development.3 
                                                           1K. Ologunro, “16 NYSC CDS Groups and their Functions”, Zikoko, last updated 
May 7th, 2020, https://www.zikoko.com/life/nysc-diary/16-nysc-cds-groups-and-
their-functions/ 
2 The Counselor, “All About NYSC CDS Community Development Service”, 
Father Prada, last updated August 15th, 2020, 
https://fatherprada.com/blog/guide/all-about-nysc-cds-community-development-
service/ 
3 The Counselor, “All About NYSC”, 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the MDGs Programmes in Nigeria 
121 
 
All corps members are expected to use one day in a week for group CDS 
activities. They are not expected to attend to duties in their places of 
primary assignment on the day of community development services 
because such days are committed for execution of development 
projects as well as programmes that will improve the living conditions 
of their host communities. 
The Community Development Service department is headed by a 
Director who coordinates the three (3) divisions and seven (7) 
branches. The divisions are; the Community Development Service 
Division, Scheme Collaborations and Special Projects Division.  
Under the Community Development Service Division. Is the Traditional 
Community Development Service under which Corps members are 
expected to spend one day in a week for the group CDS activities. There 
are sixteen (16) NYSC-CDS groups which corps members can belong to 
and they include; Corp Legal Aid Group (CLAG), Sports Group, Culture 
and Tourism Group, Education Development Group, Environmental 
Protection & Sanitation, Editorial/Publicity, Road Safety, Reproductive 
Health & HIV/AIDS, Anti-corruption, Service Delivery, Millennium 
Development Goals, Medical & Health Service, Drug-free & Quality 
Control, Agro-allied group, Charity Service and Gender, and Disaster 
Management.4 
Personal/individual CDS is under the purview of the Community 
Development Service Division. Also known as the year round 
community Development Service, Corps members are encourage to 
initiate and execute personal projects in their host communities 
depending on what is the major concern or felt need of the community. 
They are encouraged to look out for areas where they could make an 
individual impact in the community. It can include 
construction/rehabilitation of schools, toilets, incinerators, bridges, 
                                                           4 NYSC, “Community Development Service”, 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                     Francis Olisa Ikenna 
122 
 
classrooms, chairs and desks, games facilities for schools etc. It can also 
include social and educational projects like ICT laboratory 
establishments, school libraries, extra-mural classes, campaigns, 
charity works or vocational training for empowering youths.5 
The Scheme Collaborations Division deals with partnership with 
Government & Non-governmental Organizations and other 
establishments to ensure successful implementation of programmes.  
The NYSC CDS department is successfully in collaboration with many 
international, regional, national as well as local agencies in many areas 
of human & societal developmental needs towards meeting both 
national and global challenges. Today as a result of these collaboration, 
it have generated training and programmes of different types with 
various agencies like the World Bank, International Institute for 
Sustainable Development (IISD), United Nations International Children 
Education Fund (UNICEF), World Health Organization (WHO), British 
Council, United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural 
Organization (UNESCO) etc.6 
 
NYSC and the MDGs: An Existing Relationship 
The Millennium Development Goals are the eight (8) international 
development goals that were officially established after the Millennium 
Summit of the United Nations in September 2000. The Millennium 
Summit endorsed a United Nations Millennium Declaration in New 
York, USA, which contained six (6) fundamental principles and values 
viz; freedom, equality, solidarity, tolerance, respect for nature and 
shared responsibility. The declaration was regarded as an 
extraordinary global commitment and one of the most significant UN 
documents in recent times. The declaration further stated that these 
values are to be translated into actions by the key objectives of 
                                                           5 The Counselor, “All About NYSC”, 
6 NYSC, “Community Development Service”, 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the MDGs Programmes in Nigeria 
123 
 
significance expressively identified by the following; peace, security 
and disarmament; development & poverty eradication; protecting our 
common environment; human rights, democracy and good governance; 
protecting the vulnerable; meeting the special needs of Africa; and 
strengthening the United Nations.7 
It was this epoch-making declaration that gave birth to the eight (8) 
time-bound goals known as the Millennium Development Goals with 
several targets and indicators to be achieved by 2015. A record of 189 
countries and 23 international organizations at the end of the UN 
General Assembly agreed to achieve these targets which attracted a 
global attention from the very day it was unveiled. The goals are; 
1. to eradicate poverty and hunger 
2.  achieve universal basic education 
3. promote gender equality and empower women 
4.  reduce child mortality 
5.  improve maternal health 
6. combat HIV/AIDS, malaria & other related diseases 
7.  ensure environmental sustainability; 
8. and develop a global partnership for development.8 
The major aim of the MDGs is to encourage development by improving 
the social and economic conditions among developing countries 
through eradication of poverty, and building partnership with the belief 
that the wave of globalization will become a more positive force for 
everybody across the world. 
                                                           7 A. Musa, “Attainability of Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) in Nigeria: 
Current Challenges and Future Prospects”, Journal of Economics and Sustainable 
Development, Vol.6, No.19, (2015), 45-50. 
8A. A. Alawiye-Adams, and A.Babatunde, “Successful Implementation of the 
Millennium Development Goals in Nigeria: What Roles the Financial Systems are 
Expected to Perform?” (December 16th, 2013). Available at SSRN: 
http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2368244  
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                     Francis Olisa Ikenna 
124 
 
Nigeria, like many other countries, was among the signatory to the 
MDGs who pursued it with enthusiastism approaches from the 
beginning. In order to make it a success, a lot of efforts were made such 
as; negotiations for debt relief, partnerships with nations and agencies 
for financial and human resources, establishment of the Office of the 
Senior Special Assistant to the President on MDGs, and OSAG-MDGs (at 
state level), establishment of assessment and monitoring committees 
on the MDGs, securing Conditional Grants as well as putting the MDGs-
related issues a high order of priority.9 
Another significant effort was to involve the National Youth Service 
Corps (NYSC) as a major player in the effort realise the Millennium 
Development Goals. In response to this involvement, MDGs group was 
created and included as part of the CDS groups of the NYSC. This was a 
way for corps members to participate in development activities in host 
communities across Nigeria.10 
The MDGs CDS group of the NYSC was established with the vision and 
mission to be one of the critical contributors towards the attainment of 
the Millennium Development Goals and redirecting Nigeria youths 
achieving greater height through the Small Scale Enterprises and Small 
Scale Industries (SMEs & SMIs). The MDGs CDS group is known for 
organizing awareness campaigns about the MDGs and the strategies for 
achieving the MDGs targets. The corps members are trained for ten 
(10) weeks and after the training, a project is done to add to the 
development of the community and the nation at large. 
 
 
 
                                                           9Mr. Gabriel Okosiemema (Retired OSAG-MDGs staff), interviewed by the author, 
Port Harcourt, February 8th 2021. 
10 Mr. Joshua Okun, (CDS Coordinator), interviewed by the author, Asaba, 
February 12th 2021 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the MDGs Programmes in Nigeria 
125 
 
Role of the NYSC on MDGs Programmes in Nigeria 
It is generally believed that Nigeria is never left out of the list of 
countries plagued by global problems of under-development among 
which are; poverty and hunger, mass illiteracy, acute shortage of man 
power in addition to unequal distribution of skilled human resources 
across the country.11Other developmental challenges present in Nigeria 
are; lack of socio-economic or basic infrastructural facilities, 
inadequate access to water and basic sanitation, poor access to primary 
health care facilities, etc. 
The Community Development Services of the NYSC has succeeded to a 
very large extent in harnessing the skills, creativities and 
innovativeness of corps members. The MDGs CDS groups have made 
tremendous efforts in many programmes towards achieving the 
Millennium Development Goals. Members of the MDGs CDS group were 
able to identify the needs of their host communities and also involve 
the members of their host communities in the course of executing 
projects that meet the needs of the people. The efforts of the NYSC 
towards attaining the Millennium Development Goals in Nigeria 
according to the eight (8) objectives are hereby explained below; 
Goal 1: The first goal is to eradicate poverty and hunger and the target 
is to reduce the rate by half before the year 2015.The NYSC through the 
MDGs CDS groups has done so many surveys, researches and 
interactions that revealed that a large number of Nigerians are living 
below $1 per day. As the population increases, the rate of employment 
also increases. Furthermore, it was also revealed that the inability of 
youths to engage in agriculture as a means of self-employment is as a 
result of lack of access to financial resources, loans from micro-finance 
banks, land, the increasing rate of unemployment as well as the loss of 
                                                           11 C. N. Anumudu, A. Umar, and M. E. Madu, “Review of Poverty Reduction 
Policies in Nigeria: Myth and Reality”, International Journal of Economics, 
Commerce and Management, Vol. 1, No.2, (2013), 1-16 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                     Francis Olisa Ikenna 
126 
 
interest on the sector itself. Due to high rate of poverty and 
unemployment, and in order to survive, a lot of youths have resorted to 
civil unrest, drug abuse, kidnapping, human trafficking, armed robbery, 
terrorism etc.12  
In response to this challenge, the NYSC through the MDGs CDS groups 
mapped out a number of strategies towards reducing the increasing 
rate of poverty in the country. They collaborated with agencies in many 
areas of human and social development. For example, the collaboration 
between the NYSC and the Office of the Senior Special Assistant to the 
President on MDGs (OSSAP-MDGs) have engendered series of 
engagements with interested youths in agriculture so as to put 
unemployment, poverty and hunger to a controllable level. An 
empowerment programme called the NYSC/MDGs/WAP was created 
which sought to equip corps members with entrepreneurial 
skills/training in agriculture by empowering them with interest-free 
loans to generate employment rather than seeking for white-collar 
jobs. Over the years the programme is said to have empowered over 
3,500 participants in various enterprises.13 Among them are graduates, 
non-graduates and school leavers. Many of them after receiving the 
loans used it to establish agro-business enterprises due to the trainings 
they received (like poultry farming, fish farming, snailery, animal 
husbandry, livestock farming). Some of them diversified into other non-
agricultural businesses, while others who already had a business used 
the loans to scale it up.14 
 
                                                           12 Mr. Anthony Agbi (Lecturer), interviewed by the author, Abuja, February 12 th 
2021 
13Sarafat A. Tijani and M. A. Ayinla, “Effects of the NYSC/MDGs/WAP Agro-
Enterprise Loan on Beneficiaries’ Well-being in South-West Nigeria”, Nigerian 
Journal of Rural Sociology, Vol.15, No.2, (March 2015), 55 
14Tijani and Ayinla, “Effects of the NYSC/MDGs/WAP”, 60 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the MDGs Programmes in Nigeria 
127 
 
As a result of involvements in the NYSC/MDGs/WAP scheme, a lot of 
Nigerian youths were empowered, to become self employed. Many 
beneficiaries testified that they were better-off than the way they were 
after getting involved in the programmes as it helped then to become 
entrepreneurs instead of remaining unemployed which made them 
vulnerable to depression, low self-esteem, frustration and among 
other.15 
Goal 2: The second goal of the MDGs is to achieve universal basic 
education.The target of this goal is to ensure that by the end of 2015, 
children, everywhere, both boys and girls alike, will be able to enroll 
and complete a full course of primary schooling. From the survey of the 
MDGs of the NYSC, it was observed that millions of children were not in 
school. For both boys and girls, this problem was noticeable mostly in 
rural areas while in some urban areas the percentage of children was 
very low. 
There was always difficulty in keeping the pupils in school after being 
enrolled and also the inability to complete primary school which lack of 
financial resources on the side of the concerned parents was one of the 
reasons.16 Due to underfunding by some state governments, there were 
inadequate educational infrastructures and as a result buildings were 
in poor conditions teachers were not paid regularly. There were 
primary school pupils sitting on the floor because many schools across 
the country did not have enough tables, chairs and even desks for the 
teachers to sit. Even where they were available, they were not in a good 
condition.17 Buildings were not friendly as some dilapidated places 
where putting the pupils in danger. 
                                                           15BabatundeIpaye, Counselling the Unemployed: Some Exploratory Ideas for the 
Nigerian Counsellors, Counsellor, 1998. 
16 Annabel Emeh (Corp Member), interviewed by the author, Abuja, January 5 th, 
2021 
17Emeh, Interview. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                     Francis Olisa Ikenna 
128 
 
The NYSC made a lot of efforts with respect to the implementation of 
policies of the Universal Basic Education. The MDGs CDS of the NYSC 
made sure they reached out to communities so as to pass the message 
to everyone that education is now free and compulsory for every child, 
and no parent has an excuse as to why a child should not be in school. 
Other efforts include public sensitization of the importance of primary 
education, enrolling of school children, rehabilitation of existing 
primary schools, donation of textbooks, notebooks and writing 
materials to pupils, provision of chairs, tables and desks, inspecting and 
monitoring of children across communities who are not in school, and 
organizing of extra-mural lessons for pupils after regular school hours 
especially for those who are in primary five (5) or six (6).18In addition 
to the building of schools, 4-compartment toilets were constructed, 
some were renovated, and constructions of water supply schemes were 
made available. With the interventions by MDGs CDS group of the 
NYSC, thousands of existing primary schools were rehabilitated (like 
painting of the walls, fixing of new school gates and mounting of sign 
boards for schools).19 
As a result of these interventions, large number of pupils was enrolled 
into schools after being encouraged by parents due to the reorientation 
messages received. There were no longer issues like students 
complaining about notebooks and text books and writing materials, 
and a greater number of pupils who were able to complete the primary 
school level enrolled into Junior Secondary School level.20  
 
                                                           18 Andrew Soyinka, “A Bail-out Package for Education”, Tell Magazine, November 
2008, 30 
19 OSAG-MDGs, Rivers State Millennium Development Goals: 2006 Report, Port 
Harcourt, UNDP, 2006, 26 
20Emeh, Interview 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the MDGs Programmes in Nigeria 
129 
 
Goal 3: The third objective of the Millennium Development Goals is to 
promote gender equality and empower women.The target is to 
eliminate gender disparity both in primary and secondary education, 
and also to improve the ratio of girls to boy that are literate before 
2015 endpoint. The NYSC through the efforts of the MDGs CDS group 
observed that more boys are enrolled into schools than girls. 
Enrolments of boys into schools were higher than girls whereby the 
ratio of boys outnumbering girls was 2:1.21  It was revealed that many 
parents especially in rural areas preferred it that way because of of 
cultural beliefs, attitudes and practices in the homes, schools and the 
society which do not encourage girls and women. For example, some 
parents believed that it was better to have more boys than girls and so 
more money were rather spent on the boys. More girls were withdrawn 
from schools than the boys to assists in house chores and for early 
marriages.22  At school, some teachers discouraged girls with the belief 
that the boys were more intelligent than them. In many societies, some 
people believed that it was better to marry-out the girls than to send 
them to school due to wrong beliefs that after education, a woman 
would end up in the kitchen, no matter how educated.23 In addition, 
girls and young women lacked sufficient sensitization that encourages 
protection against sexual harassment. 
In response to these challenges, the NYSC was able to carry out 
campaigns that frown against discrimination of gender, by spreading 
the belief that all human being are created equal and must be given 
equal opportunity. They assisted the Universal Basic Education Board 
at all state level in making sure that more girls are enrolled into 
primary schools so as to reduce the ratio to 1:1. Consequently, they 
                                                           21MissAdorable Peters(ex-corps member), Interviewed by the author, Port 
Harcourt, February 9th 2021 
22 Peters, Interview. 
23 Engr. Eustace Anigbo (UBE Staff), Interviewed by the author, Abuja, January 
23rd2021 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                     Francis Olisa Ikenna 
130 
 
were able to debunk the belief that boys are more intelligent than girls 
as many examination records showed many girls performing 
excellently.24 
Goal 4: This was to reduce child mortality. The target was to reduce by 
two-third (2/3), the rate of infants dying before the age of five (5).It 
was revealed that the rate of child mortality has been on the increase, 
reaching and going beyond 100 per 1,000 lives per birth as the years 
keep rolling by. Some cases occur before delivery, after delivery and 
even before the child gets to the age of five (under-5 mortality).25 It was 
also proven that the cause of child mortality boils down to some health 
diseases that are now preventable like pneumonia, malaria, diarrhea, 
measles, tuberculosis, malnutrition, including injuries. And factors that 
lead to such increasing risk of child mortality included low 
immunization coverage, ignorance, low literacy rate, poverty, and poor 
accessibility to health centres especially the majority of people who live 
on the creeks and islands or even slums.26 
In attaining this objective of the Millennium Development Goals, having 
discovered what has been responsible for persistent occurrences of 
child mortality, the MDGs CDS of the NYSC acknowledged that there is 
need for the general public to be aware that these diseases are now 
preventable and even curable, instead of staying “in the dark”. This 
made them to organise series of sensitization campaigns on malaria, 
malnutrition, cholera, polio and the need to seek medical attention 
when symptoms are noticeable. Furthermore, they took this as a cause 
for concern to put more efforts and strategies towards reducing the 
rate of this challenge as quickly as possible like influencing funding 
                                                           24Anigbo, Interview. 
25 Federal Ministry of Health, “Nigeria State Data Profiles”, Healthy Newborn 
Network, accessed on  February18th, 2021, 
http://www.healthynewbornnetwork.org/page/nigeria-data 
26 Federal Ministry of Health, “Nigeria State Data”, 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the MDGs Programmes in Nigeria 
131 
 
commitments by state governments in key-MDGs sectors through the 
Conditional Grants Scheme (CGS), so that a lot of projects and services 
can be provided; primary health care systems can be revitalized, and 
more Public Health Care centre scan be constructed or refurbished. 
What the CDS group did was to identify communities that were lacking 
access to primary health care centres, inadequate medical facilities or 
equipment in existing health centres, and low immunization coverage 
which might add to number of death rates.27  Consequently, more 
primary health care centers across communities in Nigeria were either 
built or rehabilitated in thousands of units, medical equipment that 
were either not available or in low quality and quantity in many PHCs 
were finally provided. In the aspect of availability of drugs, in order to 
reduce the rate of these diseases revealed to be preventable and 
curable, drugs or medicines for each particular cure and treatment of 
these diseases were provided and made available in large and surplus 
quantity every time it is needed so as to avoid such infant mortality 
from occurring at a high rate.28 
Having understood that prevention is better than cure, immunization 
services were introduced and carried out on the children for 
preventing major illnesses from occurring. Some actions were done 
through injections and giving drops of syrups from the tube to the 
mouth of the child. Some vaccines were medically prepared to immune 
the children for a long period of time. The MDGs CDS group of the NYSC 
was able to identify communities that had no immunization units or 
low immunization coverage in the sense that the distance from a 
community to PHCs was children can be immunized is very far. In order 
to reduce this barrier, the MDGs CDS group with the assistance of 
medical practitioners was able to set up many immunization units in 
                                                           27Mr.NonsoMuoka (ex-Corps Member), Interviewed by the author, February 18 th 
2021 
28Muoka, Interview 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                     Francis Olisa Ikenna 
132 
 
Nigerian communities so as to widen the coverage.29  On many 
occasions, the MDGs CDS group was able to organize mobile 
immunization exercises whereby health workers were able to move 
from schools to schools or even places of worship to get children 
immunized after receiving consents from community heads, religious 
leaders or whoever is in charge. Due to wrong beliefs of some parents 
over this exercise, religious and traditional leaders were involved in the 
campaign to enlighten the people, especially the male heads of 
households to understand the importance of allowing their 
children/wards to be immunized.30 
In order to avoid malnutrition which is one of the most prominent 
cause of child mortality in Nigeria, what was recommended during 
sensitization programmes by the MDGs CDS group across communities 
were; the encouragement of exclusive breast-feeding for at least six 
months, adequate complementary feeding starting at about six (6) 
months continued with breast-feeding for two years, appropriate 
nutritional care of sick and malnourished children, adequate intake of 
Vitamin A for children just to mention a few.31 
Goal 5: This goal is to improve maternal health. The target is to reduce 
by three-quarter (3/4), the rate at which women are dying during child 
birth. Research also shows that more than 70 percent of maternal 
deaths in Nigeria were due to five major complications which were 
haemorrhage, infection, unsafe abortion, hypertensive disease of 
pregnancy and obstructed labour. Also, poor access to and utilization of 
quality and reproductive health services contributes to the high 
maternal mortality level in Nigeria. Some pregnant women do not 
                                                           29Muoka, Interview 
30 Peters, Interview 
31Peters, Interview 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the MDGs Programmes in Nigeria 
133 
 
register for antenatal in any health centres and consequently do not get 
examined after the delivery of their babies.32 
The MDGs CDS group of the NYSC was charged with several tasks like 
contributing towards making sure the general public knows that of 
maternal deaths can be prevented if specified instructions are 
observed; identifying communities with low proportion of births 
attended to by skilled health personnel, emphasize the need for family 
planning and the importance of observing ante-natal care to women. In 
corollary of the previous goal, intervention efforts were made towards 
reducing the high percentage of mothers dying during child birth, 
before and after. Some of them include helping the OSSAP-MDGs to 
identify communities that have no primary health care services so as to 
establish one, in order to increase the coverage of maternal care 
instead of taking the risk of going to a far distance for medical 
attentions.33 Like child health care service, maternal health care 
services were provided through the primary health care systems across 
the country. 
Goal 6: This is the sixth goal which is to combat HIV/AIDS, Malaria and 
other diseases, by reversing into half, the rate at which the virus are 
spreading on a high prevalence. Nigeria is never left out as one of the 
countries having a high rate of peoples living with HIV/AIDS, malaria 
and other related diseases.The major sets of people who are victims of 
this virus are pregnant women, young children and adults at a youthful 
age, traders and illiterates (who had never had any form of formal 
education). Study showed that a lot of individuals residing in urban 
areas of Nigeria are aware of its existence unlike those residing at the 
                                                           32 A.Imdad, M. Yakoob and Z. Bhutta, “Impact of Maternal Education about 
Complementary Feeding and Provision of Complimentary Foods on Child Growth 
in Developing Countries”, BMC Public Health, Supplement 3, S25, 3rd April 2011, 
11, doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-11-S3-S25 
33Muoka, Interview. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                     Francis Olisa Ikenna 
134 
 
rural areas. It has shown that half of the world’s population is at risks of 
having malaria.34 It is an endemic in Nigeria that has become a 
prominent cause of morbidity and mortality in Nigeria. Most malaria 
cases and deaths occur in sub-Saharan Africa and the set of people who 
suffers this disease are mostly children under the age of five (5), 
pregnant women, patients living with HIV/AIDS and even non-immune 
migrants. 
When the MDGs came into full implementation, the NYSC through the 
MDGs CDS team went into actions immediately to control the spread 
and impact of HIV/AIDS. Although various control programs were 
instituted beginning at the national level when the National Agency for 
the Control of Aids (NACA) was established with the task to provide a 
general political, coordination, and programme and oversight 
functions. Interestingly, the NYSC was said to have collaborated with 
the agency and has assisted in a good number of development 
projects.35 
Having discovered that majority of Nigerians who have adequate 
knowledge of the spread of HIV/AIDS are those residing in urban areas, 
which implies that the percentage of people living in rural areas who 
are aware of the spread of the disease are very low. The MDGs CDS 
group of the NYSC through many supports from related agencies or 
action committees was able to spread awareness on a high scale across 
rural communities. Majority of what has been discussed about were; 
when HIV/AIDS started, how it can be contracted, as well as how it can 
be prevented. Interestingly, how an infected woman who is pregnant 
can transfer this virus to her unborn child, and also how it can be 
prevented before delivery were explained in may awareness campaigns 
                                                           34 FGN, National Policy on HIV/AIDS 2003, Abuja, FGN, 2003, 17 
35Mr.Ayomide Benson (NYSC Official), Interviewed by the author, Kaduna, 23 rd 
February 2021 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the MDGs Programmes in Nigeria 
135 
 
and sensitization programmes.36 Community members who were not 
clear about certain information were encouraged to ask questions to be 
clarified. As a result of these programmes organized by the NYSC CDS 
team, the percentage of awareness about the virus across communities 
in Nigeria began to grow which will engender serious caution for 
prevention or abstinence. 
Moreover, the NYSC assisted with many strategies in the course of its 
public enlightenment exercise. Some of which include; promotion of 
safe sexual behaviour, appropriate use of condoms; voluntary 
counselling and testing, ensured the respect for, and protection of the 
rights of all Nigerians including persons living with and affected by 
HIV/AIDS.37The MDGs CDS teams across the country were able to carry 
out some tests like; Blood Pressure, Sugar level and HIV status. If the 
HIV status is negative, he/she is advised on how to keep up with the 
prevention, but if it is positive he/she is counselled on how to get 
proper treatment and stay healthy to avoid the situation getting 
worse.38On the aspect of Malaria, enlightenment exercises were still 
carried out across Nigeria with the information that malaria is still as 
deadly as it has been known. It was revealed that there are many 
households that still sleep without treated nets. The MDGs CDS were 
able to facilitate donation of insecticide-treated nets to hospitals and 
health centres across the country. And they were also able to provide 
anti-malarial drugs to reduce the rate at which people are having 
malaria.39 
 
Goal 7: This is to ensure environmental sustainability. The target is to 
integrate the principle of sustainable development into countries 
programmes and reverse the loss of environmental resources; improve 
                                                           36 Benson, Interview. 
37 Peters, Interview 
38Peters, Interview 
39Peters, Interview 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                     Francis Olisa Ikenna 
136 
 
access to safe drinking water; and also improve access to basic 
sanitation by 50% before 2015.The National Youth Service Corps 
(NYSC) via the efforts of the MDGs CDS groups observed lack of access 
to safe drinking water and lack of basic sanitation due to poor acts of 
waste disposal and high rate of urban slum dwellers across Nigeria. The 
proportions of households with access to all these basic needs are very 
low. 
Residents were into the habit of disposing wastes and garbage 
improperly especially the market places. Objects like bottles (breakable 
and unbreakable), nylons and papers sometimes are intentionally 
thrown into the roads. Even when efforts are made wastes are poorly 
collected from homes and littered back to the streets and major roads. 
In terms of the environment of schools, personal hygiene and sanitation 
status are very poor. Some places were polluted thereby making the 
pupils vulnerable to all kinds of challenges to their health.40 The 
hygiene and sanitary conditions were also critical and had been 
identified as contributory to the effective retention and of girls in 
school, particularly in some parts of the country. 
In order to attain the 7th objective of the MDGs, the NYSC was able to 
collaborate with ministries, departments and agencies in carrying out 
many projects. The MDGs CDS groups were able to rehabilitate many 
borehole facilities across the country. Prominent among these places 
were schools, market places and public areas within communities. This 
was because many of the water facilities were constructed a long time 
ago and it has not been attended to by the authorities who are 
responsible for them.41 Provided the fact that the attainment of the 
Millennium Development Goals is a universal responsibility, the NYSC 
through the CDS group were able to play their own parts in order to 
                                                           40Mrs. Stella Adegoke (NYSC Official), Interview by the author, February 18 th 
2021 
41Mr. Dare Oluwibe (Corps member), Interview by the author, February 18 th 2021 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the MDGs Programmes in Nigeria 
137 
 
ensure environmental sustainability. For example, at least once or 
twice a month, they were able to go to market places and public motor 
parks to carry out sanitation exercises like sweeping the premises. In 
addition, many market women and motor park workers have been 
sensitized about the importance of sanitations to both them and the 
commuters.42  
Goal 8: The eight and the last objective of the goal is to develop a global 
partnership for development. This was with the target to achieve 
reduction and cancellation of debt among countries; avoid 
discriminatory trade and financial system among countries. With so 
many development projects already on ground, rather than relying on 
the government for assistance with resources, the NYSC believe that 
partnership with other government of advanced countries, donor 
agencies and international organizations is a great strategy towards its 
successes. 
On the part of the NYSC, the major role it played is to enhance 
productivity of every youth, and also make information and 
technologies available across Nigeria. From the beginning of the MDGs 
program the MDGs CDS group of the NYSC have succeeded in 
collaborating with a lot of Ministries, Department and Agencies (MDA) 
international organizations and even Non-governmental organizations 
(NGOs). Examples of them are; Office of the Senior Special Assistant to 
the President on MDGs (OSSAP-MDGs), Ministry of Environment, 
Ministry of water resources and Rural Development, United Nations 
Millennium Campaign, UNICEF, UBE (at both national and state level), 
USAID, National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA) 
and many more.43 
                                                           42Oluwibe, Interview 
43Okun, Interview 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                     Francis Olisa Ikenna 
138 
 
As a result of these collaborations with many organizations/groups, the 
NYSC has achieved a lot towards the attainment of the Millennium 
Development Goals. This is because these partnerships were able to 
assist mostly in terms of finance, human resources, strategic 
development programmes which consequently hastened development 
in many places across Nigeria. In terms of finance they were able to 
receive a good number of funds which enabled them to execute a lot of 
projects both as a CDS group and as an individual. In terms of human 
resources, many development experts either from the OSSAP-MDGs or 
other MDAs that are MDGs-related were able to serve as advisors to the 
MDGs CDS group in order to improve the ways in which development 
activities can be carried out across communities in Nigeria. And, in 
terms of strategic development programmes, when sensitization 
programmes in line with GOALS 3 to 7, members of these partner 
groups are often invited as resource persons with a wider knowledge 
to enlighten the public about the purpose of such sensitization 
campaigns.44 
 
Challenges of the NYSC in MDGs Programmes in Nigeria 
Undoubtedly, in course of many efforts towards achieving the 
Millennium Development Goals in Nigeria, the NYSC encountered 
challenges along the line. Some challenges are hereby explained below; 
Financial Constraints: Compared to many other challenges, the issue 
of funding is regarded as the most prominent challenges in the course 
of achieving concerned objectives. Financial constraints have been a 
major problem for the NYSC towards carrying out plans successfully. 
For example, there were cases where some vital projects needed a 
great deal of funds to be carried out but due to lack of funds, some had 
to stop half way while some were even abandoned.45 And this was one 
of the reasons why some corps members resorted into carrying out 
                                                           44Okun, Interview 
45 Peters, Interview 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the MDGs Programmes in Nigeria 
139 
 
development programs individually or as sub-groups across many 
schools and other public places in Nigeria. 
Logistics Challenges: In this aspect, it involves movement of both 
people and items needed for execution of development projects from 
place to place. For example, some locations needed to be covered for 
developmental projects are very far. Because the MDGs CDS groups do 
not have a vehicle of their own, they always chatter public vehicles to 
convey themselves and the equipment they will need, which might be 
very expensive.46 
Lack of Cooperation from Community Members: This is a vital 
expectation for successful activities towards the achievement of the 
Millennium Development Goals, yet it poses a challenge, whereby the 
involvement of community members in MDGs CDS programmes is very 
low due to some perceptions. For example, the MDGs CDS programmes 
are regarded as project made only for the corps member for whom they 
will be rewarded at the end. Some community members see the MDGs 
programmes by corps members as an avenue for them to gain 
recognition and not a selfless service.47 Due to such perceptions or 
inadequate understanding of the MDGs CDS groups’ mission, a lot of 
community members have not been able to get involved. 
Low Cooperation from Corps Members: This is a serious challenge 
which implies that lack of cooperation from corps members who are 
the champions of development will result to a colossal failure of the 
vision and mission of the MDGs. Many corps members never make 
themselves available for development programmes, meetings, seminars 
and sensitization campaigns across communities. Even financial 
                                                           46 Peters, Interview 
47 PreciousArigbo,Gideon Onuekwusi, DorothyIkoro andTaiwoAdeogun, 
“Community Involvement in the National Youth Service Corps Community 
Development Service Projects in Abia State, Nigeria”, Journal of Agricultural 
Extension,Vol. 23 (4), (October 2019), 66-75, 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                     Francis Olisa Ikenna 
140 
 
contribution to the group for completion of programmes has never 
been encouraging. Consequently, many MDG CDS groups have left 
many projects either pending completion or not done at all.48 
 
Conclusion 
This chapter examined the programmes initiated by the NYSC towards 
the attainment of the Millennium Development Goals in Nigeria. It 
began by giving a historical development of the NYSC explaining that it 
was established in 1973 after the Nigerian Civil War ended in 1970. 
This was a platform for Nigerian Youths to be deployed to different 
states across Nigeria to understand cultures and traditions of other 
tribes or ethnic groups and also promote unity. The chapter also 
discussed the relationship between the NYSC and the CDS which 
explained that in order to contribute towards development of 
communities, many CDS groups were created to attend to the needs of 
host communities of Corps members. 
Therefore, in order for the NYSC to contribute towards the attainment 
of the Millennium Development Goals, the MDGs CDS group was 
created to carry out many MDGs-related programmes which include; 
sensitization programmes, rehabilitations/renovations of buildings 
(like schools, health centres and markets), as well as donations of 
different relief materials to community members. Challenges ranging 
from poor funding down to lack of cooperation were the major factors 
hindering a successful achievement of the MDGs programmes. The 
Millennium Development Goals has elapsed in 2015 and it has been 
replaced by the Sustainable Development Goals. And, it is 
recommended that the Nigerian Government should provide adequate 
funds to the NYSC improve facilities and also encourage cooperation 
among corps members for effective execution of CDS programmes. 
 
                                                           48Muoka, Interview 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC and the MDGs Programmes in Nigeria 
141 
 
Bibliography 
 
 “All You Need to Know about the National Youth Service Corps 
(NYSC)”, Nigerian Scholars, last updated on February 20th 2019, 
https://www.nigerianscholars.com/schoolnews/ 
Alawiye-Adams, Adewale and AfolabiBabatunde. “Successful 
Implementation of the Millennium Development Goals in 
Nigeria: What Roles the Financial Systems are Expected to 
Perform?” (December 16th, 2013). Available at SSRN: 
http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2368244 
Anumudu, Charles, Aminu Umar, and Magnus Madu. “Review of Poverty 
Reduction Policies in Nigeria: Myth and Reality”, International 
Journal of Economics, Commerce and Management, Vol. 1, No.2, 
(2013), 1-16 
Arigbo, Precious, Gideon Onuekwusi, Dorothy Ikoro and 
TaiwoAdeogun. “Community Involvement in the National Youth 
Service Corps Community Development Service Projects in Abia 
State, Nigeria”, Journal of Agricultural Extension, Vol. 23 (4), 
(October 2019), 66-75, 
Federal Ministry of Health. “Nigeria State Data Profiles”, Healthy 
Newborn Network, accessed on  February 18 th, 2021, 
http://www.healthynewbornnetwork.org/page/nigeria-data 
FGN. National Policy on HIV/AIDS 2003, Abuja, FGN, 2003, 17 
Imdad, Aamer, Mohammad Yakoob and Zulfiqar Bhutta. “Impact of 
Maternal Education about Complementary Feeding and 
Provision of Complimentary Foods on Child Growth in 
Developing Countries”, BMC Public Health, Supplement 3, S25, 
3rd April 2011, 11, doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-11-S3-S25 
Ipaye, Babatunde. Counselling the Unemployed: Some Exploratory Ideas 
for the Nigerian Counsellors, Counsellor, 1998. 
Musa, Abdu. “Attainability of Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) in 
Nigeria: Current Challenges and Future Prospects”, Journal of 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                     Francis Olisa Ikenna 
142 
 
Economics and Sustainable Development, Vol.6, No.19, (2015), 
45-50. 
National Youth Service Corps (NYSC). “Community Development 
Service and Special Projects Department”, assessed on February 
15th 2021,https://www.nysc.gov.ng/cds.html 
Obialo, Maduawuchi. “History of NYSC in Nigeria: When NYSC Started & 
Purpose”, Nigerian Infopedia, last updated on October 2nd, 2019, 
https://nigerianinfopedia.com.ng/history-of-nysc-in-nigeria/ 
Okafor, Chukwuemeka and JohnmaryAni. “The National Youth Service 
Corps and Growing Security Threat In Nigeria”, Africa’s Public 
Service Delivery & Performance Review, Volume 2, No.2, (June 
2014), 149 
Ologunro,Kunle. “16 NYSC CDS Groups and their Functions”, Zikoko, last 
updated May 7th, 2020, https://www.zikoko.com/life/nysc-
diary/16-nysc-cds-groups-and-their-functions/ 
OSAG-MDGs, Rivers State Millennium Development Goals: 2006 Report, 
Port Harcourt, UNDP, 2006, 26 
Soyinka, Andrew. “A Bail-out Package for Education”, Tell Magazine, 
November 2008, 30 
The Counselor. “All About NYSC CDS Community Development Service”, 
Father Prada, last updated August 15 th, 2020, 
https://fatherprada.com/blog/guide/all-about-nysc-cds-
community-development-service/ 
Tijani, Sarafat A. and M. A. Ayinla. “Effects of the NYSC/MDGs/WAP 
Agro-Enterprise Loan on Beneficiaries’ Well-being in South-
West Nigeria”, Nigerian Journal of Rural Sociology, Vol.15, No.2, 
(March 2015), 55 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC, Community Development Service and the Sensitization... 
143 
 
 88 88    
    NYSC, Community Development Service and the 
Sensitization Programs in Nigeria 
 
 
Mohammed Liman Murtala 
 
 
Introduction 
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Scheme is a direct product of 
the aftermath of the 1967-1970 Nigerian Civil War. The ugly effects of 
the war plunged the country to the brink of disintegration. There was 
therefore need to infuse the ideals of unity and togetherness in the 
country at all costs. Several efforts were put in place as strategies to 
reconstruct, reconcile, and rebuild the Nigerian nation among which 
was the establishment of the NYSC Scheme. The NYSC scheme was 
established on 22nd May, 1973 by Decree 24 of 1973, later amended by 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                 Mohammed L. Murtala 
144 
 
Decree No. 21 of 1985 which was also later replaced by Decree No. 51 
of 16th June, 1993 to inculcate discipline in Nigerian youth by instilling 
in them a tradition of industry at work and of patriotism and loyal 
service to the nation; develop common ties among them and promote 
National Unity and enable youths to acquire the spirit of self-reliance 
among other noble objectives.1The NYSC scheme was designed as a 
mandatory one year national service programme for Nigerian 
graduates not above the age of 30. The cardinal programmes of the 
scheme are Orientation Courses primary assignment, Community 
Development Service, and winding up/passing-out. This paper, 
therefore, seeks to study the role of the NYSC scheme, in carrying out 
sensitization and awareness campaigns in partnership with other 
organisations thereby, galvanizing and championing the socio-
economic and political development of the host communities. 
 
Conceptual Clarification 
For explanation and the need for a meaningful understanding of the 
subject matter, there is a need to clarify several concepts that are 
relevant to the topic under study. 
 
Community Development 
According to the United Nations Economic and Social Council’s report 
on Concept and  Principles of Community Development, community 
development is "a process where community members come together 
to take collective action and generate solutions to common 
problems."It is a broad concept, applied to the practices of civic leaders, 
activists, involved citizens, and professionals to improve various 
aspects of communities, typically aiming to build stronger and more 
resilient local communities.2 Furthermore, Community development 
                                                           1 National Youth Service Corps Year Book, 2013 Edition. p23. 2 concepts and principles of community development and recommendations on 
further practical measures to be taken by international organizations Author(s): 
United Nations, Economic and Social Council, Social Commission (Eleventh 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC, Community Development Service and the Sensitization... 
145 
 
seeks to empower individuals and groups of people with the skills they 
need to effect change within their communities. These skills are often 
created through the formation of social groups working for a common 
agenda. It is important to also note that one of the basic guiding 
principles of community development according to the report is that, 
the activities undertaken must correspond to the basic needs of the 
community which occupies the center stage in the context of our study. 
 
Public awareness/sensitisation Campaign 
To Rasmussen University Library and Learning Services, a public 
awareness campaign is a marketing effort to build public recognition of 
a problem through media, messaging, and an organized set of 
communication tactics.  These campaigns target a large number of 
people over a specific period to try and generate specific outcomes or 
achieve pre-determined goals.3  It can further be viewed as a sustained 
effort to educate individuals and boost public knowledge about an 
organization's cause or issue which in turn will bring a meaningful 
understanding of a particular phenomenon, leading to the socio-
economic and political development of communities.4Awareness 
campaigns are one of the most popular, effective, and flexible ways to 
raise public interest and educate a community about a project, ranging 
from health care, agriculture, education, and other aspects of societal 
development. 
The community development projects undertaken by the Corps 
members can be best understood in two ways, namely; infrastructural 
projects and human development projects. The infrastructural projects 
                                                                                                                                       
Session) Source: Ekistics, Vol. 4, No. 26 (NOVEMBER 1957), pp. 92-96 
Published by: Athens Center of Ekistics Stable URL: 
http://www.jstor.org/stable/43613175 Accessed: 31-01-2017 14:36 UTC.p1 3S.Bouder.Criticalcomponentsforpublicawarenesscampaigns. https://advocacyunlea
shed.kontribune.com/articles/1371. (2013) 4 ABC of Community Development Service, NYSC Community Development 
Service and Special Project, 2016.p6 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                 Mohammed L. Murtala 
146 
 
include projects like the construction of classrooms, bridges, roads, bus 
stops, status, and symbols among others. While human development 
projects include donations to the less-privileged, organisation of extra-
mural classes, adult literacy campaigns, skill acquisition/ vocational 
training, sports development, and immunization and sensitization 
campaigns, which improved the way of life and living standards of the 
communities. 
As part of the national service activities, sensitization campaigns by the 
Youth Corps Members fall within the category of collaborative and 
group Community Development Service. This entails the signing of 
MOUs by the scheme with different organizations across the various 
aspect of human development. It is therefore imperative within the 
context of this study to examine the structural modules of the NYSC 
Community Development Service CDS concerning our understanding of 
the topic under study. 
 
The Infrastructural Project 
This involves the impactful activities of the Corps members based on 
community felt needs. It involves the identification and solving of 
critical areas of infrastructural deficit of the host communities. An 
example of these areas could be the construction of bridges, 
classrooms, the building of toilets, incinerators, provision of games 
facilities in schools, equipping libraries with books, and vocational 
training for empowerment among others. To execute this project, it is 
expected that the Corps members will solicit funds from 
philanthropies, politicians, donor agencies, private organizations in and 
outside of the community, but on no account should a Corps member 
write a letter to any of the above-stated organizations without passing 
through the State Coordinator. 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC, Community Development Service and the Sensitization... 
147 
 
Human Development Project 
In this category, Corps members volunteer in public awareness and 
sensitizations campaigns, educating the public on various aspect of 
community development like the SDGs campaign, UNICEF, WHO, 
NDLEA, NAFDAC, FRSC, USAID, UNESCO, EFCC/ICPC, WOTCLEF, LEGAL 
AID, SERVICOM, SON among many others. From the recent studies 
available, Corps members executed more human development projects 
than infrastructural projects. This is expected because of the huge 
amount of capital and the bureaucracy involved in executing 
infrastructural projects.5 This finding conforms with the observation of 
Inuwa that community members perceived the provisions of 
infrastructural projects by Corps members as least effective when 
compared to the educational projects of the NYSC CDS. To buttress this 
Jack has this to say; 
We don’t get too involved in infrastructural projects as 
funds were involved to get those kinds of projects 
done. Infrastructural projects tend to require huge 
funds compared to sensitization campaigns which 
require less cash. More so, Corps members don’t get 
funds from NYSC to embark on projects, they have to 
source funds mostly from the community stakeholders 
and philanthropists. And so with the little, the Corps 
members have it is only justifiable that infrastructural 
projects would be a challenge to them and less 
expensive campaigns like sensitization tend to be more 
feasible.6 
 
                                                           5Jeremiah Jack, 31, ex-corp member, Nigerian Defence Academy PG School, 
08/03/2021. 6  Jeremiah Jack, 31, ex-corpmember,Nigerian Defence Academy PG 
School,08/03/2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                 Mohammed L. Murtala 
148 
 
In contrast to the above, the NYSC encourages Corps members to 
embark on infrastructural projects but they are cautioned not to use 
personal funds to execute such project. Most times, they are advised to 
seek funds from politicians and well-to-do community stakeholders 
who can support them to complete of the projects. Also, it is on record 
that Corps members are supposed to put up a project plan, having 
identified a community development project.7 
 
NYSC - Community Development Service CDS an Overview 
The NYSC-CDS is one of the four cardinal programmes of the NYSC 
Scheme that requires the positive contribution of the Corps members 
to the development of their host communities.8 Every Corps member 
must participate in the community development programme. It is 
carried out for the whole service-year and involves assigning Corps 
members to CDS groups to align with the members of their host 
community to promote self-reliance by systematically prospecting and 
executing development projects and programmes which impact 
positively on the socio-economic development of the society.9 More so, 
community development service is as old as the evolutionary period of 
the African societies. This can be best understood from the words of 
Enegwea and Umoden thus; 
One of the most significant attributes of pre-colonial African societies 
was their regular resort to collective community effort as a means of 
meeting common challenges. For many centuries, it was through this 
indigenous arrangement that communities built fortifications for their 
collective security, build roads and bridges to facilitate transportation, 
and cleared forest to make way for farms. Long before the colonial 
administrators came with their “development plan” many Nigerian 
                                                           7Jeremiah Jack Interviewed. 8 National Youth Service Corp Year Book, 2018 Edition.p46 9 ABC of Community Development Service, NYSC Community Development 
Service and Special Project, 2016.pvi 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC, Community Development Service and the Sensitization... 
149 
 
societies had perfected mechanisms by which their people could 
identify common needs…frequently re-enforcing the idea that the 
members of each community were the primary architects of their 
destiny.10 
It is expected of a Corps member to identify and execute development 
projects in his host community, which in essence means the impact 
he/she will make to that community will live forever as his/her legacy 
in the development of the society. Inuwa for example hails from Katsina 
but served in Niger State and has participated in the SDG CDS group, he 
gave an account of his participatory role in the sensitization campaign 
on self-reliance at Bogkoita community in Chanchaga LG of the state: 
 We have first of all identified that the community has 
so many potentials in agricultural produce, mostly in 
yam production, but they are very slow to adopting the 
modern techniques of farming as well as expanding 
their market beyond the confine of their community as 
this is the order of the day. Women can be said to have 
been relegated to the farming activities too which the 
team of the campaigners enlightened the community 
through the Chief that there are other exploits in small-
scale businesses that the women can partake and make 
headways. All our submissions were accepted by the 
people and they promised to take advantage of it 
henceforth.11 
 
 
 
 
                                                           10 G Enegwea and G Umoden, NYSC: Twenty Years of National Service, (Lagos: 
Gabumo Publishing Cmpany LTD, 1993).P59 11 S T Inuwa, 31, ex-corp member Niger State, Nigerian Defence Academy PG 
School, 08,03,2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                 Mohammed L. Murtala 
150 
 
Objectives of the NYSC-CDS 
In the quest to prepare the Youth Corps Members to meet the national 
development aspiration, the scheme had developed a handbook with 
the CDS operational guidelines titled; “ABC of Community Development 
Service”. The objectives, classification, purpose and activities, funding 
of projects among others was spelled out as follows; 
I. Impacting positively on the improvement of rural community 
life. 
II. Developing the spirit of entrepreneurship in the Corps 
Members. 
III. To utilize the challenges which rural development poses and 
inculcate in the Nigerian Youth the ideals and capacities for 
leadership, endurance, selflessness, community service, 
national service, patriotism, and creativity. 
IV. Exposing Corps Members to diverse traditions and customs of 
the host communities. 
V. Providing the forum for Corps Members to experiment with 
ideas and translate them into concrete achievements thereby 
relying less on foreign technology and encouraging the use of 
local raw materials in the execution of projects. 
VI. Harnessing the enormous talents and skills of Corps Members 
into effective machinery of change in our rural communities. 
VII. Providing on-the-job training and experience for Corps 
Members. 
VIII. Providing complimentary service in our National development 
activities, by ensuring that our underprivileged population 
learns basic techniques for self-help through the appropriate 
technology concept being promoted by NYSC. 
IX. To instill in Corps Members the tradition of the dignity of 
labour and productivity. 
X. To complement the activities of government at all levels in the 
stride towards national development. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC, Community Development Service and the Sensitization... 
151 
 
Classification of CDS 
The CDS component of NYSC is classified into various categories as 
discussed below (NYSC, 2015): 
I. Group CDS: This is the type of CDS activity whereby Corps 
Members are formed into various groups for various purposes 
and aims. Corps Members are expected to use one day in a week 
for this category of CDS and are not expected to attend duties in 
their Places of Primary Assignment on such days. Such days are 
dedicated to the execution of projects and programmes that will 
improve the living conditions of their host communities. 
II. Personal CDS: This is the type of CDS activity where individual 
Corps Members can execute projects/programmes in their host 
communities based on the community’s felt needs. Corps 
Members are encouraged in addition to the group CDS to look 
out for areas where they could make an individual impact in the 
community. It could be construction projects like building 
toilets, bridges, classrooms, etc., or social/educational 
projects/programmes such as the establishment of libraries, 
extramural classes, charity work, vocational training for 
empowerment of unemployed youths, etc. Where a 
project/programme requires financial support, Corps Members 
are encouraged to source funds from other organisations after 
getting approval from the management of NYSC. 
III. Collaborative CDS: The scheme partners with National and 
Non-Governmental organizations and other establishments to 
implement development programmes. The Scheme signs MOU 
with the partners, clearly stating each partner’s 
roles/responsibilities. Corps Members are usually involved as 
Volunteers in this programme. Collaborators in this type of CDS 
include Road Safety Group (Federal Road Safety Corps), 
Reproductive Health & HIV/AIDs Group, Anti-Corruption 
(Economic and Financial Crimes Commission & Independent 
Corrupt Practices and others related offenses Commission) 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                 Mohammed L. Murtala 
152 
 
Group, Service Delivery Group (Attitudinal Change, Re-
Branding), Sustainable Development Goals, Medical and Health 
Services Group (Red Cross, Breast Without Spot, Polio Plus, 
etc.), Drug-Free and Quality Control Group (National Drug Law 
Enforcement Agency, National Agency for Food and Drugs 
Administration and Control, Standards Organisation of Nigeria), 
etc.12 
 
Collaborative CDS and Sensitization Campaigns in Nigeria. 
As noted earlier NYSC has entered into collaborations and partnerships 
with National and Non-Governmental Organisations and other 
institutions and establishments using Corps members as volunteers in 
the sensitization of the public in various segments of community 
development. There are a plethora of these organizations in 
partnership with NYSC. We shall enumerate some of them, their 
purpose, and activities. It is in the interest of this chapter to as well 
engage some Corps members on their various experiences in 
Community Development Service, their involvement in the 
sensitization campaign shall also be explored in due course. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           12  M. Abdullahi, O. Ehiyamen and L. Cheri, Analysis of the Implementation of 
Community Development Service Projects of National Youth Service Corps: 
Channels And Hindrances, Ilorin Journal of Administration and Development,Vol 
2 No, 2, Dec, 2016.p5 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC, Community Development Service and the Sensitization... 
153 
 
Table 8.1 
S/N CDS GROUPS PURPOSE ACTIVITIES 
1 Corps Legal 
Aid Group 
• Free legal 
services to the 
less privileged 
and indigent 
prison inmates 
(Victims of 
denials and 
violation o 
frights) 
• Sensitization of 
the public on  
fundamental 
human rights 
• Advocacy 
• Visit to prisons 
• Legal service to 
inmates and indigent 
persons 
• Public lecture and 
awareness on 
fundamental human 
rights. 
2 Sport Group • Creates avenue 
for recreation 
and healthy 
rivalry among 
Corps Members 
and the 
community. 
• Arousing the 
consciousness 
of living healthy 
and purposeful 
lifestyles 
through 
participation in 
one form of 
physical activity 
or the other 
• Participation in 
Sports competitions 
• Identifying and 
Training members 
of the Community 
• Organizing Sports 
Competitions 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                 Mohammed L. Murtala 
154 
 
• Identifying 
talents among 
Corps Members 
3 Cultural  • Promoting arts 
and Culture 
• Dissemination 
of vital socio-
economic and 
political 
problems and 
prospects. 
• Identifying talents 
• Entertainment 
• Setting up of the 
schemes the at 
regroups 
4 Educatio
n 
Develop
ment 
Group 
(Mass 
Literacy, 
Adult 
Educatio
n, Extra 
Murals, 
ICT) 
• Enhance the 
Education 
Standard of the 
host community 
• Career 
guidance and 
counseling for 
students 
• Campaign against 
Illiteracy 
• Organizing
Extramural classes 
for Adults 
• Organizing of in 
school programmes 
5 Environmen
tal 
Protection 
and 
Sanitation 
Group (Eco 
Vanguard, 
NASREA) 
 
• To promote 
• To create awareness on sustainable environment management and regeneration
• Tree planting 
• Sanitation 
• Drainage Control 
• Erosion Control 
• Reforestation. 
• Landscaping 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC, Community Development Service and the Sensitization... 
155 
 
6 Editorial/ 
Publicity 
Group 
• Compliment the 
activities of the 
NYSC PRU in 
disseminating 
Information to 
the Community 
• Making a 
presentation on 
mass media to 
enlighten people on 
socio-cultural 
education. 
7 Road Safety 
Group 
• To contribute 
to public safety 
on our roads 
• Sensitization and 
control of traffic 
• Rendering first
 aid to accident 
victims 
• Establishment of
 road safety clubs in 
schools 
8 Reproductiv
e Health & 
HIV/ AIDS 
Group 
• To train and 
mentor Students 
• To mobilize and 
strengthen 
community 
based 
responses on 
HIV/AIDS 
prevention 
• Sensitization 
9 Anti-
Corruption 
Group 
(EFCC & 
ICPC) 
• To help 
in eradicating 
corruption 
through 
Campaign  
 
• Sensitization 
• Creation of 
awareness in 
schools and 
organizations 
• Establish Anti - 
Corruption Clubs 
in schools 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                 Mohammed L. Murtala 
156 
 
10 Service 
Delivery 
Group 
(Attitudina
l Change, 
Re- 
Branding) 
 
• Sensitization • Training 
• Sensitization 
• Group
 discussions 
11 SDGs • To create 
awareness and 
actualize the 
goals of SDGs 
• Advocacy and 
Mentoring of the 
host Community 
12 Medical 
and 
Health 
Services 
Group (Red 
Cross, 
Breast 
Without 
Spot, Polio 
Plus) 
• Promotion and 
provision of 
Medical 
Services 
• Health outreach 
• First Aid 
administration 
• Establishment 
• Setting up of clinic 
for the NYSC 
Secretariat 
13 Drug Free 
and 
Quality 
Control 
Group 
(NDLEA, 
NAFDAC, 
SON) 
 
 
• Eradication of 
fake drugs and 
• Create 
awareness of 
the danger of 
drug abuse. 
• Establishment of
 drug free clubs in 
Schools 
• Ensuring linkages 
with the host 
communities. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC, Community Development Service and the Sensitization... 
157 
 
14 Agro-Allied 
Group 
• Support agro 
allied activities 
in host 
communities 
• To promote 
better food 
production and 
security. 
• Demonstration 
farms/Extension 
Services 
• Establishment of 
Farmers 
Cooperative 
Societies 
• Advocacy 
• Teaching of new 
farming 
techniques 
• Communities 
15 Charity 
Services and 
Gender 
Group 
• To improve the 
living standard 
of the 
downtrodden 
• Charity 
outreaches  
to the public 
• Mobilize funds 
and other 
resources for less 
privileged 
• Visits of 
orphanages 
&prisons 
• Donation of 
materials to 
homes 
16 Disaster 
Managemen
t Group 
(NEMA) 
• To create 
awareness on 
disaster 
management 
• To disseminate 
information on 
how to manage 
disasters 
through Corps 
Emergency 
• Public 
enlightenment on 
disaster 
management and 
control through 
the emergency 
Vanguards 
• Disaster 
management 
• Liaison with 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                 Mohammed L. Murtala 
158 
 
Vanguards. NEMA on how to 
assist during 
emergencies 
• Formation of 
emergency 
vanguard club in 
schools. 
 
Source: ABC of Community Development Service, NYSC Community 
Development Service, and Special Project, 2016.p4 
Deducing from the fifth purpose of the NYSC Community Development 
program which has been to enlighten and educate the public on the 
operations of the NYSC. They also engaged in the enlightenment 
campaigns to the public as well as awareness for the national and 
international organizations in partnership with NYSC. A more coherent 
view on the significance of enlightenment campaigns in the rural areas 
was put forward by Enegwea and Umoden thus; 
The presence of the Corps members in rural areas, and 
their involvement in projects within the local 
community, serves to stimulate greater interest in the 
NYSC among curious villagers. The presence of the 
Corps members in their midst allows the villagers to 
meet, sometimes for the first time, a Nigerian from 
some other part of the country.13 
This communication between the youth Corps member and their host 
communities aided greatly the sensitization campaigns as they 
required some semblance of synergy to be able to pass any message to 
the communities. An example of these sensitization campaigns and 
their impact can be seen as follows. 
                                                           13 G Enegwea and G Umoden, NYSC: Twenty Years of National Service..p.63 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC, Community Development Service and the Sensitization... 
159 
 
One of the Community Development Service groups, the Federal Road 
Safety aims to reach out to the public through the youth Corps 
members via sensitizations and awareness campaign in the public 
safety of our roads, basic rules and regulations of traffic, the 
importance of securing a license, rendering first aid to accident victims, 
drawing zebra signs as well as the establishment of road safety clubs in 
secondary schools.14Aside from the sensitization campaign which aims 
to educate the public, they also identify and execute projects in that 
community that needed to be done especially concerning the FRSC 
mandate. It may interest you to note that NYSC Corps members under 
the FRSC CDS group are more actively engaged in the activities of road 
safety unlike others, they are given uniforms and badges for 
identification purposes. There is also an allowance in form of stipends 
although not regularly for the Corps members in appreciation of their 
participation.15Aliyu, an ex- Corps member who served in Katsina has 
this to say; 
At the end of our NYSC engagement in June 2019, we 
contributed money amongst ourselves to buy some of 
the basic apparatus required in the first aid kit that we 
can afford; we took it to a community under 
Batagarawa Local Government, specifically to the 
community’s primary health care center. We, first of all, 
wrote a letter to the village head informing him of our 
intentions to contribute and he approved it. We 
gathered on a particular date and delivered the items 
to them. We further used the opportunity to run a 
blood group test on some selected women and old 
people by the medical practitioners amongst us. They 
                                                           14KelechiEgwu, 29,excorper, Bakori Local Government, Katsina, 06/03/2021. 15Mohammed Tijjani, 45, NYSC Staff, NYSC State Secretariate Kaduna, 
09/03/2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                 Mohammed L. Murtala 
160 
 
appreciated our gesture and prayed for us to succeed in 
our future endeavors.16 
Similarly, there is the National Emergency Management Agency CDS 
which is aimed at sensitizing and embarking on campaigns and 
outreaches to communities, schools, and market places on disaster 
management and emergency control. The NYSC through its National 
Emergency Vanguard CDS have collaborated with NEMA in the area of 
providing emergency relief and other relief materials that enable 
victims of a natural disasters such as drought, fire and other forms of 
disasters. Corps members from the NYSC Emergency Vanguards also 
embark on sensitive operations like provision of emergency aids to 
accident and flood victims, and formation of emergency vanguard club 
in schools. On the NEMA CDS sensitization campaign, Sulaiman opined 
that; 
during our CDS programmes, we embarked on 
sensitization and awareness creation to Kalgo 
community of Birnin Kebbi on emergency ways of 
controlling fire outbreak, in the process of this 
sensitization, we go along with fire extinguishers for 
practical exhibition on ways to quench fire, safety and 
precautionary measures on how to prevent a fire like 
the putting off of electricity and electronic devices.”17 
Furthermore, among the NYSC Community Development Service 
groups, is the Environmental Protection and Sanitation group meant to 
promote and sustain a healthy environment. Corps members are 
engaged to create awareness on sustainable environment management 
and regeneration.18 Among the activities of the group is tree planting, 
landscaping, erosion control, sanitization, drainage control among 
                                                           16AliyuDalhatu, 31, Student, UnguwanSarki Kaduna, 02/13/2021. 17 Bilal Sulaiman,35,Student, Nigerian Defence Academy, 04/03/2021 18 ABC of Community Development Service, NYSC Community Development 
Service and Special Project, 2016.p5 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC, Community Development Service and the Sensitization... 
161 
 
others. The Corps members according to Tijjani, did not only create 
awareness, but also actively engaged in sweeping of public places like 
motor parks, schools, and palaces among others.19Yusuf gave an 
account of his experience on the environmental sensitization campaign: 
We carried out sensitization on open defecation in 
Moro Local Government Area of Kwara State. We first 
of all noticed a problem of open defecation in the 
Bodesadu community; we interacted with the people 
through the village head, we found out that, most of the 
landlords in that community build their houses without 
a toilet, which necessitated people to defecate outside. 
Very fortunate to our campaign committee, most of the 
landlords in question used to attend PTA meetings, in 
market places, the chief’s palace among other places. 
We were, therefore, able to convince most of them to 
build toilets.20  
In the aspect of promoting arts and culture, Ntukogu, who served in 
Lokoja Local Government of Kogi State noted that “we have two 
mandates in the Culture and Tourism CDS group. Firstly, we help other 
groups to disseminate vital information to the public concerning their 
various mandates. This is so because we have our band subgroup. We 
organized drama, dancing competition, participate in festive 
celebrations, if any and so much more. This gives us the ability to 
gathers a large crowd and use the medium to enlighten them on so 
many community socio-economic and political development projects. 
We engage also in the identification of talents among peers in the 
community. Besides, via entertainment, we were able to sensitize our 
host community on the importance of preserving their culture and 
recording account of their traditions and heritage. We organized 
                                                           19 Mohammed Tijjani, 45, NYSC Staff, NYSC State Secretariat Kaduna, 
09/03/2021 20Jamiu Yusuf, 30, Lecturer, Nigerian Defence Academy ,Kaduna, 01/03/2021 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                 Mohammed L. Murtala 
162 
 
carnivals, and set up theatre groups in schools, under which we used to 
take the students to museums and other cultural sites.21 
Corruption has for long been an issue of national concern in Nigeria;22 
it deep-rooted into the system which requires adequate attention that 
includes creation of awareness to the public on the need to eradicate 
corruption from the society. Part of this effort was seen in the 
engagement of NYSC members in sensitization campaigns under the 
Community Development Service group. Ishaq, stressed that “we 
carried out a sensitization campaign in two forms which include; public 
sensitization campaign to the public and school based campaigns in 
Kano State. We reached out to markets motor parks, and roadside 
business owners among others. The school based campaign targeted 
secondary school students. We introduced them to the functions of 
EFCC and ICPC and their statutory roles as citizens in actualizing a 
corrupt-free society.”23  
Others include the legal aid CDS group. This involves graduates of law 
and other related professions; they offer free legal service to the 
downtrodden and less privileged in the community and sensitize them 
on their fundamental human rights. The group extends their service to 
the prisons where they advocate for the inmates especially victims of 
circumstances and violation of human rights. Mass literacy also among 
the advocacy carried out by Corps members, it involves a campaign 
against illiteracy and the organization of adult education in their 
respective host communities. These activities no doubt has over the 
years helped immensely in reaching out to the public on various 
aspects of human capacity development. 
 
                                                           21OzinnaTochukwuNtukogu, 30, Student, Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna, 
08/02/2021. 22  O. Nnoli, Ethnic Politics in Nigeria, (Enugu: Fourth Dimention Publishers, 
1980).p34 23AbubakarIshaq, 27, Student, UnguwanDosa Kaduna,09/03/2021 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC, Community Development Service and the Sensitization... 
163 
 
Challenges of Sensitization Campaigns 
One of the challenges faced by the Corps member sensitization 
campaigns in is their language barrier. In most cases, NYSC members 
used to find it difficult to pass across messages due to language barrier. 
In rural areas, you are either assigned an interpreter from the natives 
or you must have learnt to speak the native language. The rural people 
most times will prefer that messages are passed to them in their 
traditional language, however, the structure of NYSC does not usually 
allow Corps members to serve in their states, hence, Corps members 
have to make do with interpreters. Again, interpreters may not 
necessarily send the proper messages across. 
Another challenge worthy of note is in sufficient time especially while 
sensitizing school pupils. Normally school hours are pre-design with 
periods of lessons, resulting in, Corps members being given break 
hours or Fridays during sports to pass across whichever message they 
may have. 
Additionally, distance is another challenge faced by the Corps members 
in carrying out sensitization campaigns. In most cases, Corps members 
experience difficulties in conveying themselves to the rural areas. 
Unlike the case of some very few groups that used to provide mobility 
to Corps members, majority allowed the burden on the campaigners. 
The financial aspect of the execution of the projects is usually an issue 
of concern which in some instances Corps members had to tax 
themselves to be able to buy some writing materials for the pupils in of 
school sensitization campaigns. 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                 Mohammed L. Murtala 
164 
 
Conclusion 
From the above narrative, therefore, the role of the NYSC Corps 
members in the sensitization of the public for societal development 
cannot be overemphasized. The committed effort of the Corps 
members in impacting the lives of the people especially the rural 
communities is encouraging, despite the numerous challenges faced as 
pointed out in the paper. The NYSC Scheme by establishing the 
Community Development Service CDS as part of the obligatory 
activities to be carried out by the Corps members can be said to be 
aware to its responsibilities. Furthermore, the for capacity 
development projects with international, national, and Non-
governmental organizations aided the positive socio-economic 
contributions of the NYSC members to their various host communities. 
However, there is a need for more synergy with existing local systems 
where Corps members carry out their activities. This will solve issues 
of coordination and language barriers. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC, Community Development Service and the Sensitization... 
165 
 
Bibliography 
 
ABC of Community Development Service, NYSC Community 
Development Service and Special Project, 2016. 
Abdullahi M., EhiyamenO,and Cheri L, Analysis of the Implementation 
of Community Development  
Service Projects of National Youth Service Corps: Channels and 
Hindrances, Ilorin Journal of Administration and 
Development,Vol 2 No, 2, Dec, 2016. 
Abubakar Ishaq, 27, Student, Unguwan Dosa Kaduna, 09/03/2021. 
BouderS,Criticalcomponentsforpublicawarenesscampaigns. https://ad
vocacyunleashed.kontribune.com/articles/1371. (2013) 
Concepts and principles of community development and 
recommendations on further practical measures to be taken by 
international organizations Author(s): United Nations, 
Economic and Social Council, Social Commission (Eleventh 
Session) Source: Ekistics, Vol. 4, No. 26 (NOVEMBER 1957) 
Published by: Athens Center of Ekistics Stable URL: 
http://www.jstor.org/stable/43613175 Accessed: 31-01-2017 
14:36 UTC. 
DalhatuAliyu, 31, Student, UnguwanSarki Kaduna, 02/13/2021. 
Enegwea G, and Umoden G, NYSC: Twenty Years of National Service, 
(Lagos: Gabumo Publishing Cmpany LTD, 1993). 
Inuwa S T, 31, ex-corp member Niger State, Nigerian Defence Academy 
PG School, 08,03,2021. 
Jack, Jeremiah 31, ex-corpmember,Nigerian Defence Academy PG 
School,08/03/2021. 
National Youth Service Corp Year Book, 2018 Edition. 
National Youth Service Corps Year Book, 2013 Edition. 
Nnoli O, Ethnic Politics in Nigeria, (Enugu: Fourth Dimention 
Publishers, 1980) 
NtukoguOzinnaTochukwu 30, Student, Nigerian Defence Academy, 
Kaduna, 08/02/2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                 Mohammed L. Murtala 
166 
 
Sulaiman Bilal, 35, Student, Nigerian Defence Academy, 04/03/2021 
Tijjani, Mohammed 45, NYSC Staff, NYSC State Secretariate Kaduna, 
09/03/2021. 
Yusuf Jamiu, 30, Lecturer, Nigerian Defence Academy ,Kaduna, 
01/03/2021 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Campaign... 
167 
 
 99 99    
    National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the 
Campaign for a Drug Free Society: Implications for 
Counselling 
 
 
Usman Bakari  
 
 
Introduction 
One of the primary goals of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) 
since its establishment in 1973 is to inculcate in Nigerian Youths the 
spirit of selfless service to the community, and promote unity among all 
Nigerians.1 These cannot be achieved if the youths are in deep use of 
substance abuse. In an effort to curb this menace, the Federal 
                                                           1 https://www.nysc.gov.ng/aboutscheme.html 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                               Usman Bakari  
168 
 
government established the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency 
(NDLEA) in 1989 to combat the trafficking, production and 
consumption of substance abuse, which includes illicit drugs in Nigeria. 
The agency has not yet put a stop to these ugly trends. Hard drugs are 
commonly found in the country at door steps for sale and consumption. 
The availability and accessibility encourage youths to experiment with 
these substances, sometimes in schools or outside the school 
environments. The researcher has observed that, substance abuse and 
dependence has become a canker worm that has eaten deep into the 
fabrics of the society and affects many youths in Nigeria. It has 
continued to base a threat to the effective survival of our societies, 
communities, nations especially, Nigeria. This menace is detrimental to 
education and the health of our youths.  
It is also evident that lives and properties are lost daily, simply because 
people engage in substance abuse. Behaviours of youths as a result of 
drug addiction are also associated with various psychological, 
physiological, emotional, moral and psychosocial problems. It has also 
led to multiple unhealthy behaviours among youths in Nigeria, such as 
death from different road accidents, pre-marital sex, unwanted 
pregnancy, alcoholism, stealing, burglary, armed robbery, kidnapping, 
raping and many more social vices. This problem has caused many 
youths to engage in prostitution, cultism and violence, parents, 
neighbors and thereby resulting in health-related problems like mental 
disorder and sexually transmitted diseases (STDs).  
The World Health Organisation (WHO) (2016) revealed that, at least 
15.3 million persons have drug use disorders in the world2. In the same 
vein, the WHO stated that, in Nigeria, more than twenty-six thousand, 
two hundred and twenty (26,220) youths die yearly because of drugs, 
                                                           2World Health Organization, (2016) Facts and figures from 
http://www.who.int/substance_abuse/facts/en/ 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Campaign... 
169 
 
with the percentage of 1.38%3. Also, illicit drug use is injurious to 
young adults. The Nigerian National Drug Law Enforcement Agency 
(NDLEA) has stated that substance abuse is a major problem in schools, 
colleges and universities in Nigeria.4 
It is against this background that the chapter examinesthe National 
Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Campaign for a Drug Free Society: 
Implications for Counselling. 
 
National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Community 
Development Service (CDS)  
Corps members from Drug-Free Clubs do organise public 
enlightenment campaigns through lectures, debates, seminars, rallies, 
in schools, motor parks, markets and public squares in their host 
communities.5 This is in line with the objectives of the National Youths 
Service Corps. These activities have impacted positively on the 
development of rural communities. The objectives are to also, instill in 
Corps members the tradition of dignity of labour and productivity, to 
complement the activities of government at all levels in national 
development.6 Community Development Service (CDS) group have the 
mandate to enlighten Nigerians, especially youths on Drug Free society 
in collaboration with National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), 
National Agency for Food, Drugs Administration and Control 
(NAFDAC), and Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SAN). These CDS 
groups were created by NYSC to assist in eradicating fake and 
adulterated foods and drugs, create awareness on the dangers of drug 
abuse, to establish drug free clubs in Schools and to ensure linkages 
with the host Communities. The NYSC initiated, developed and 
                                                           3World Health Organisation, WHO, (2014). World health rankings live longer live 
better. Retrieved from http://www. worldlifeexpectancy.com/country-health-
profile/Nigeria. 4Akanbi et al. 2015) 5 https://portal.nysc.org.ng/nysc3/Programmes.aspx 6(Abdullahi 2019) 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                               Usman Bakari  
170 
 
executed these programmes which resulted in socio-economic 
development in various communities. These were achieved because the 
Corps Members were responsible and trained in and outside the 
orientation camps.7  
 
Conceptual Clarifications: Substance Abuse 
This concept has been viewed by many researchers differently based 
on their perceptions or affiliations. A substance is a chemical that alters 
a person’s mood or behavior when it is smoked, injected, drunk, 
inhaled, snorted8, or swallowed in pill form.9 The WHO defined 
substance abuse as any harmful or hazardous use of psychoactive 
substances, including alcohol and illicit drugs (e.g. cocaine, 
amphetamine, cannabis, opium, codeine and so on). In addition, 
substance abuse is defined as a maladaptive pattern of substance use 
occurring within a 12-month period that leads to significant 
impairment or distress evidenced by one or more of the following: (a) 
failure to meet obligations, (b) use of substances in physically 
hazardous situations, (c) legal problems, or (d) interpersonal 
problems.10 
In the same vein, Adel Wadie defines substance abuse as a maladaptive 
pattern of behavior in substance use leading to significant impairment 
or distress as it manifests by one or more of the following symptoms 
that occur within a 12-month period: (a) recurrent substance use 
resulting in a failure to fulfill major roles or obligations at work, school, 
or home; (b) recurrent substance use in situations in which it is 
physically hazardous (e.g. driving an automobile or operating a 
                                                           7(Abdullahi 2019) 8 Making air quickly up or down into nose. 9 Halgin, P.R & Whitbourne, S.K. (2010).Abnormal  Psychology: Published by 
McGraw-Hill, an imprint of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., 1221 Avenue of 
the Americas, New York, NY 10020.pp. 392 Sixth edition 
10 Ibid p.2 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Campaign... 
171 
 
machine when impaired by substance use); (c) recurrent substance use 
relating to legal problems (e.g. arrests for substance-related disorderly 
conduct); and (d) continued substance use despite having persistent or 
recurrent social or interpersonal problems exacerbated by the effects 
of the substance (e.g. argument with spouse about consequences of 
intoxication or physical fights).11 
In the context of the DSM-IV, substance abuse is a term and criterion 
for substance-related disorders. Wikipedia (2016) defined a ‘drug’ as 
any substance other than food, that when inhaled, injected, smoked, 
consumed, absorbed via a patch on the skin or dissolved under the 
tongue causes a physiological change in the body. Folawiyo (1988) 
scientifically defines drug as any substance other than food, which by 
its chemical nature, affects the structure or function of the living 
organism. To a physician, a drug is any substance used as a medicine in 
the treatment of a physical or mental disease. When used in the context 
of drug abuse, the term becomes inflammatory. The meaning of a drug 
becomes social rather than scientific.  
Also, according to Kwajafa, a drug is said to be abused when it is not 
recommended by an authorized medical practitioner, when its use is 
forbidden by law or it is socially unacceptable or when it is used 
excessively, even if it is socially accepted substance such as alcohol.12 
Olonode defined substance abuse as the excessive use of drug or use of 
illegal drugs or use of a drug when it is not prescribed by a medical 
doctor or when not medically necessary.13 In addition, the National 
Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) defined drug abuse as drug use that 
results in the physical, mental, emotional and social impairment of the 
body organs. A drug is any substance used as medicine or used to cloud 
                                                           11Adel Wadie (2012)  as cited in Diagnostic and statistical manual of mental 
disorders IV (DSM – IV, 2000), 12Kwajafa (1992), 13Olonode (2007) as in Baba (2017) 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                               Usman Bakari  
172 
 
or change perception in an attempt to blot out reality or escape from 
disturbing stimulations. 14 
 
Prevalence of Substance Abuse in Nigeria 
Substance abuse is a global public health problem that impacts 
negatively on health, family, society, educational and professional life. 
Majority of youths ignorantly depend on one form of substance or the 
other for various daily activities such as social, educational, political 
and sport/entertainment. A descriptive study was conducted among 
359 rural youths aged 15-35 years. The prevalence of drug abuse was 
10% and the most abused drug was Tramadol (52.8%). The result 
indicated that youth in the study area abuse drugs such as Tramadol.15 
Also, interviews were conducted with 406,17-year-old youth (90% of 
those eligible),forty-five percent of foster care youth reported using 
alcohol or illicit drugs within the last six months; 49% had tried drugs 
sometime during their lifetime and 35% met criteria for a substance 
use disorder. A diagnosis of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder also 
predicted increased likelihood of poly substance use and substance 
abuse disorder16. 
In addition, substance abuse among youths is fast becoming a global 
public health concern. A study assessed the prevalence and factors 
associated with substance abuse in selected public schools in 
Ogbomoso, South-West Nigeria. 249 participated in the study, the mean 
age of our respondents was 16.3±2SD; 40.0% of them had positive 
attitude to substance abuse while 21.7% had ever consumed alcoholic 
drinks. Tramadol was the most commonly abused substance apart from 
alcohol; reported by 39.0% of the substance abusers. Most (35.5%) of 
the substance abusers did so believing it could enhance their academic 
performance.  
                                                           14 According to Silverman (1978) as cited in Mburza (2011) 15Gobir et al. 2016 16Vaughn et al. 2007 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Campaign... 
173 
 
The proportion of respondents who were substance abusers was 
significantly higher among students who had not received any formal 
lectures on the subject at school compared to those who had.(47.5% vs 
29.7%;p=0.023).17On the other hand, alcohol is the most widely used 
substance abuse among youths in Nigeria. Underage drinking poses a 
serious public health problem in most colleges and despite the health 
and safety risk, consumption of alcohol is rising. Having recourse to the 
public health objective on alcohol by the WTO, is to reduce the health 
burden caused by the harmful use of alcohol, thereby saving live and 
reducing injuries, binge drinking and the consequences of alcohol 
consumption.18In the light of the foregoing, substance abuse is one of 
the most common behavioural problems among youths in Nigeria. 
 
Substance Abuse Awareness 
Corps members in their CDS that involve host communities, schools, 
and other public places embarked on enlightening the people on the 
menace of substance abuse in the country. The need for awareness and 
sensitisation in curbing substance abuse or misuse among youths in 
Nigeria cannot be over emphasized. It is evidently clear that 
researchers are of the view that, awareness should be created among 
youths for proper precautions against substance abuse. They suggested 
that enhanced awareness of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder and 
substance abuse comorbidity in high-risk, impoverished populations 
are critical to understanding the mechanisms of substance.19 
In a study of awareness of substance abuse and other health-related 
behaviors among preschool children the result shows that, only fifteen 
per cent among the participants could identify the concept of drug 
consumption for non-medical purposes, depicted by a girl taking oral 
                                                           17Idowu et al. 2018) 18Adekeye et al., 2019 19Khoury et al. 2010 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                               Usman Bakari  
174 
 
medication in a psychedelic setting.20  The media is the major source of 
awareness and knowledge of substances.21 Efforts’ involving major 
stakeholders is needed to scale-up campaigns for reducing drug and 
substance abuse among school children. This can be achieved through 
raising awareness about the consequences of substance abuse; building 
capacity to strengthen coping mechanisms to stress and to those 
presenting with effects resulting from use of these substances and 
review academic curricula.22 In a study of Pattern of Substance Abuse 
among Senior Secondary School Students in a Southwestern Nigerian 
City, Majority of the respondents were males (60.7%) and within the 
16-19 year age group (65.5%). Respondents whose parents are 
married were 81.4%, while those with divorced/separated parents 
were 10.5% and those with single parents were 8.1%. Of the 420 
interviewed respondents, 372 (88.6%) claimed awareness of existence 
of substances which can be abused. Majority of respondents had 
positive attitude towards substance abuse and 87.4% said they will do 
everything to ensure they discourage a friend from using such 
substances.23 
Studies on younger populations have demonstrated a positive 
association between awareness about substance abuse and their 
attitudes toward substances. Saudi Arabia is an Islamic country with 
strict laws regarding availability and use of addictive substances. 
Addictive behaviors tend to be concealed by the users in the Saudi 
community. However, some studies have revealed that drug abuse is 
more common in the Saudi community than was previously thought, 
                                                           20(Tennant, 2019) 21(Garechaba, Yohana, and Esther 2017 22(Garechaba, Yohana, and Esther 2017). Perceptions of school going adolescents 
about substance abuse in Ramotswa, Botswana: Journal of Public Health and 
Epidemiology 23 Pattern of Substance Abuse among Senior Secondary School Students in a 
Southwestern Nigerian City: International Review of Social Sciences and 
Humanities 2013 vol.4 issue 2. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Campaign... 
175 
 
thus it is necessary to have estimates of existing awareness regarding 
substance abuse.24 Drug and substance abuse have been on the increase 
and this has raised concern among most peers particularly in 
developing countries, where interventions towards addressing this vice 
have yielded little results. These vices have led to a number of high-risk 
behaviours such as engaging in crime, unprotected sexual intercourse, 
violence, destruction of property and poor academic performance.25 
School teachers, traditional rulers, government agents and youths are 
the stakeholders that can take the campaign for a drug free society to 
the next level or greater height.  
 
Prevention Strategies of Substance Abuse 
It is the responsibility of the Corps Members to educate themselves on 
the prevention strategies so that communities around the country can 
benefit from their services. The purpose of the National Youth Anti-
Drug Media Campaign is to promote the primary prevention and 
control of drug abuse, which means preventing drug abuse before it 
starts, and controlling it before it escalates.26 Recent advances in 
psychosocial research and neurosciences have provided new avenues 
for prevention of substance abuse at the individual and community 
level. A series of risk and protective factors affecting the likelihood of 
using and abusing substances have been identified. The scope of 
prevention has been broadened, allowing the prescription of different 
interventions for individuals according to their varying degrees of 
vulnerability to substance experimentation, continuous use and 
dependence. An increased awareness of comorbidity between mental 
and substance use disorders provides an arena for prevention within 
psychiatry and related disciplines. The integration of prevention within 
healthy life style policies and programs, including interventions at the 
                                                           24(Siddiqui and Salim, 2016) 25Kiriru 2018) 26 https://www.ojp.gov/pdffiles1/ondcp/171694.pdf 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                               Usman Bakari  
176 
 
school, family and community levels, is more likely to produce the 
desired outcomes27  
 
Substances Commonly Abused by Youths in Nigeria 
In Nigeria, the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA)has 
identified six major classes of substances most frequently and 
commonly abused in Nigeria as follows: Stimulants, Sedatives, 
Narcotics, Hallucinogens, tranquilizers and miscellaneous. Also, the 
most common types of abused drugs according to NAFDAC (2000) as 
cited by28) are categorized as follows: - 
1. Stimulants: These are substances that directly act and 
stimulate the central nervous system. Users at the initial stage 
experience pleasant effects such as energy increase. The major 
source of these comes from caffeine substance.  
2. Hallucinogens’; these are drugs that alter the sensory 
processing unit in the brain. Thus, producing distorted 
perception, feeling of anxiety and euphoria, sadness and inner 
joy, they normally come from marijuana, LSD etc.  
3. Narcotics: These drugs relive pains, induce sleeping and they 
are addictive. They are found in heroin, codeine, opium etc.  
4. Sedatives: These drugs are among the most widely used and 
abused. This is largely due to the belief that they relieve stress 
and anxiety, and some of them induce sleep, ease tension, cause 
relaxation or help users to forget their problems. They are 
sourced from valium, alcohol, promotazine, chloroform.  
5. Tranquilizers: They are believed to produce calmness without 
bringing drowsiness; they are chiefly derived from Librium, 
Valium etc.  
 
                                                           27Medina-Mora 2005) 28Haladu (2003 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Campaign... 
177 
 
According to the National Training Manual on Adolescent Reproductive 
Health, [ARH] (2001) alcohol, coffee, tea, kola nuts, cannabis (Indians 
Hemp), stimulants (dexamphetamine), anxiety relieving drugs (Valium, 
Lexotan), narcotics (heroin), cocaine, solvents and hallucinogens are 
some of the drugs commonly abused in Nigeria. The two commonest 
drugs abused by adolescents are alcohol and tobacco (cigarette). These 
are also known as the ‘gateway’ drugs. The most commonly used 
substances were codeine (85%), alcohol (75%), cannabis (70%), 
tramadol (65%), rohypnol (65%), and tobacco (50%)29 . 
 
DRUG GROUP EFFECTS DANGER 
STIMULANTS 
• Cocaine (crack, gbana) 
• Caffeine (coffee) 
• Nicotine/ Tobacco 
(cigarette, snuff) 
• Amphetamines(Chinese 
Capsule “CC”). 
Can cause 
increase in energy 
and activity. 
Can suppress 
hunger. 
Produces a state 
of excitement, 
feeling good or a 
state of euphoria 
(the intensity of 
the feeling 
depends on type 
of drug e.g., 
cocaine is 
stronger than 
caffeine in coffee). 
Sleeplessness/Anxie
ty 
Irregular heartbeat, 
Possible heart 
failure. Over 
excitement or 
hypomania. 
Hallucinations, other 
forms of mental 
disorders 
(amphetamine and 
cocaine can cause 
Psychosis). 
Recklessness. 
Tolerance and 
psychological 
dependence develop 
quickly. 
 
                                                           29Adekeye et al. 2017) 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                               Usman Bakari  
178 
 
DEPRESSANT 
• Alcohol 
(beer,wine,ogogoro 
Opia-pia, 
ogura,burukutu,akpet
esh). 
• Benzodiazepines 
(Valium, Lexotan). 
• Barbiturates 
Make a person 
“feel good” at the 
beginning. Can 
cause depressive 
illness. Slows 
down body 
functions. Cause 
sleep or 
Drowsiness. Lead 
to fall in blood 
pressure, slowing 
of the heart and 
respiratory rate. 
Unconsciousness 
and even death. 
Drowsiness 
Uncoordinated 
behaviour and 
actions. 
Difficulty in 
operating machines, 
driving a car, bus, 
trailer, truck, under 
the influence of 
alcohol. 
Unconsciousness 
death.  
MARIJUANA 
• Indian hemp 
(cannabis, weed, 
Igbo, ganja, wee-
wee, pot, stone, 
hashish) 
Alters the way 
people see, hear, 
and feel. 
Can cause fear or 
change fear 
making the user 
bold and more 
daring. 
Can cause dryness 
of mouth and 
throat. 
Disorientation. 
Confusion.  
Problem of co-
ordination. 
Long term use can 
decrease libido, and 
effect sperm 
production. 
Like cigarette 
smoking, it can 
cause damage to the 
respiratory system 
especially the lungs. 
Can change 
motivation. 
Precipitates mental 
illness  
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Campaign... 
179 
 
INHALANTS 
• Glue (solutions for 
patching shoes) 
• Paint thinner 
• Nail-polish 
remover 
• Aerosols (hair 
spray) 
• Petrol 
• Gutter  
Inhaled fumes can 
cause: 
-Excitation 
-Disinhibition 
-Euphoria 
Dizziness 
Inco-
ordination/Unstead
y gait 
Slurred speech 
Lethargy 
Tremor 
Generalized muscle 
weakness 
Blurred vision 
Euphoria 
Stupor or coma 
 
NACORTICS 
• Heroin 
• Morphine 
• Codeine 
Can induce 
nausea, 
drowsiness and 
changes in mood 
Nausea or Vomiting  
Muscles aches 
Watering of eyes 
and running of 
noses Sweating  
Chills 
Diarrhea 
Yawning 
Fever 
Insomnia 
 
Fig 9.1: A Table Showing Various Drug Groups, Their effects and 
Dangers its Posses to Human Health. 
Source: Authors Compilation 
 
Campaign Strategies for a Drug Free Society 
The role of NYSC, the parents, mass media, community, home leaders, 
schools and religious centres in reducing substance abuse cannot be 
overemphasised. They play vital roles in curbing the menace of 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                               Usman Bakari  
180 
 
substance abuse in the country. The campaign should focus on primary 
prevention for three key reasons.  
a. First, primary prevention targets the underlying causes of drug 
use, and, therefore, has the greatest potential to reduce the 
scope of the problem over the long term. 
b. Second, over time a primary prevention campaign will lessen 
the need for drug treatment services, which are in critically 
short supply.  
c. And third, a media campaign has greater potential to affirm and 
reinforce the anti-drug attitudes of youth who are not involved 
in drug use than to persuade experienced drug users to change 
their behaviour30 . 
The National Youth Service Corps through it Drug Free CDS group 
embarks on series of campaigns all over the country on the the effect of 
drug abuse. As noted by NYSC Drug free group Katsina when they 
staged a walk against the abuse of drugs: 
“We enlightened the general public on the dangers of 
drugs abuse and the different form of threats these 
drugs pose to health. We also staged a walk between 
kofar kwaya Round-about and the popular Narto Car 
Park, where our members addressed both the 
transporters and passengers on the dangers of the use 
of illicit drugs”31 
Mental health and substance use disorders among children, youth, and 
young adults are major threats to the health and well-being of younger 
populations which often carry over into adulthood. The costs of 
treatment for mental health and addictive disorders, which create an 
                                                           30 The National Youth Anti-Dr Anti-Drug Media C Ug Media Campaign 
Communication Strategy Statement: 
https://www.ojp.gov/pdffiles1/ondcp/171694.pdf 31 NYSC Drug Free Katsina State, Towards a Drug Free Nigeria Facebook post, 30th 
August 2019. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Campaign... 
181 
 
enormous burden on the affected individuals, their families, and 
society, have stimulated increasing interest in prevention practices that 
can impede the onset or reduce the severity of the disorders. 
Prevention practices have emerged in a variety of settings, including 
programs for selected at-risk populations (such as children and youth 
in the child welfare system), school-based interventions, interventions 
in primary care settings, and community services designed to address a 
broad array of mental health needs and populations. Preventing 
mental, emotional, and behavioral disorders among young people, 
reducing risks for mental disorders, focusing special attention on the 
research based and program experience with younger populations that 
have emerged since that time. Researchers, such as those involved in 
prevention science, mental health, education, substance abuse, juvenile 
justice, health, child and youth development, as well as policy makers 
involved in state and local mental health, substance abuse, welfare, 
education, and justice will depend on this updated information on the 
status of research and suggested directions for the field of mental 
health and prevention of disorders32 
 
Treatment for Substance Abuse Using Counselling 
Hope is a vital component of psychological healing and plays a critical 
role in counselling (Koehn, O’Neill, and Sherry 2012). Substance abuse 
treatment involves four distinct phases:  prevention, detoxification, 
rehabilitation and relapse prevention33. In addition, the four major 
categories of drug treatment studied by Drug Abuse Treatment 
Outcome Study (DATOS) included outpatient methadone programs, 
long-term residential programmes, outpatient drug-free programs, and 
short-term inpatient programs. In outpatient methadone programs, 
clients are given methadone to reduce cravings for heroin and block its 
effects. They also receive counselling and vocational skills development 
                                                           32O’Connell, Boat, and Warner, 2009. 33 Williams & Wilkins: Mass Publishing Egypt(1997). Psychiatry. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                               Usman Bakari  
182 
 
to help them rebuild their lives. In long-term residential programs, 
clients are given continual drug-free treatment in a residential 
community they share with counsellors and fellow recovering addicts 
(sometimes called a therapeutic community). In outpatient drug-free 
programs, a wide range of psychosocial approaches are used, including 
12-step programs. In short-term inpatient programs, clients are 
stabilized medically and then are encouraged to remain abstinent 
through taking steps to change their lifestyle. The methods used in 
these treatment formats rely on one or more components of biological 
treatment combined with psychotherapy and efforts to provide clients 
with social supports and improvements in their occupational and 
family functioning.34 
The efficacy of Psychological techniques, especially Cognitive 
Behavioural Therapy (CBT) in managing or changing learned 
behaviours like attitude, anxiety, phobia, depression, study habits and 
substance abuse cannot be over exaggerated.35Counselling gives 
curative measures in reducing tendencies, dependencies and abuse of 
substance among all and sundry. As an expert in counselling industry, 
proper use of behavioural, cognitive and affective techniques in 
changing or reducing the menace of substance abuse is of paramount 
significance. Integrating HIV prevention into substance abuse 
counselling is recommended to ameliorate the health outcomes of men 
who have sex with others.36Adolescents need effective lifestyle 
counselling precisely because health problems are so common. Good-
quality lifestyle counselling can prevent the problems from becoming 
                                                           34 Halgin, P.R & Whitbourne, S.K. (2010).Abnormal  Psychology: Published by 
McGraw-Hill, an imprint of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., 1221 Avenue of 
the Americas, New York, NY 10020.pp. 422 Sixth edition 
35 Bakari, U. (2018). Efficacy of a Cognitive Behavioural Programme on Changing 
Positive Attitudes Towards Substance among Secondary School Students in Jalingo 
Metropolis, Taraba state Nigeria. A Ph.D. theses submitted to the department of 
psychology, University of Bahri, Sudan. 36(Spector and Pinto 2011) 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Campaign... 
183 
 
worse and decrease the costs of health care. Nurse practitioners in 
schools are well positioned to promote adolescent health37 .  
A study revealed that, most adolescents (84%) reported that the 
counselling resources related to school-based health care are quite 
good for their lives. Most of them reported that nutrition (70%) and 
physical activity (63%) related to lifestyle counselling are sufficient. 
Approximately half of adolescents (51%) considered the counselling 
related to substance abuse as being sufficient. Most (80%) felt that the 
level of interaction during counselling is good. Overall, the majority of 
adolescents reported that goal-oriented lifestyle counselling (67%) and 
adolescent-centred counselling (69%) are good38Students(youths) 
experience various challenges during their studies, such as personal 
problems, academic difficulties and mental health problems. 
Counselling centres/units play a valuable role in providing support 
systems for youths in need.39 Traditional psychotherapeutic methods 
also play an important role in recovery for many people with substance 
related disorders. For some people, inpatient care is necessary at least 
for a brief duration while they proceed through a process of 
detoxification; during a period lasting from a few weeks to several 
months of residential care, some individuals stabilize physically and 
psychologically by participating in a multimodal program. For many 
people, outpatient treatment helps them attain their goals, although 
many psychotherapists strongly recommend that recovering clients 
also participate in a 12-step program in which they have access to 
ongoing support on a regular and consistent basis. 
The NYSC also embark on counselling in schools. Mostly, counselling 
focused on the effects of drug abuse and this has helped in great 
                                                           37Myllymäki, Ruotsalainen, and Kääriäinen 2017) 38(Myllymäki, Ruotsalainen, and Kääriäinen 2017). Adolescents’ evaluations of the 
quality of lifestyle counselling in school-based health care: Scandinavian Journal of 
Caring Sciences. 39Cilliears, Pretorius, and Van der Westhuizen 2011 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                               Usman Bakari  
184 
 
measure in curbing the menace of drug abuse among children and even 
youths. Also, the NYSC under the NYSC drug-free CDS groups have 
created various anti-drug clubs in secondary schools for of 
sensitizations against the misuse of drugs. Furthermore, the NYSC has 
visited various rehabilitation centers, engaging in counselling of the 
already redeemed inmates on the effects of going back into active drugs 
taking and misuse and its effect on their health. 
 
Conclusion  
A Drug is any substance other than food, that when inhaled, injected, 
smoked, consumed, absorbed via a patch on the skin or dissolved under 
the tongue causes a physiological change in the body. Substance abuse 
is categorised into stimulants, inhalants, depressants and 
hallucinogens. Signs of substance abuse include physical, social, 
psychological and behavioural signs. Youths abuse substances because 
of ignorance, inquisitiveness, experiments and to feel comfortable. 
Counselling techniques can change psychotropic behaviours of 
substance abusers. Counsellors, psychologists, social workers should 
intensify efforts by organising seminars, workshops, symposia and 
conferences for substance abusers, and parents so that the menace of 
substance abuse can be minimized. 
 
Recommendations  
1. New Counselling centres should be created in the country for 
proper youths’ awareness, prevention and rehabilitation of 
substance abusers. 
2. Experts (counsellor, psychiatrists and social workers) should 
be deployed to those centres to manage youths with substance 
abuse. 
3. Retreat, seminars, workshops, symposia and public lectures 
should be done consistently for youths’ proper adjustment to 
normal life. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Campaign... 
185 
 
References 
 
Abdullahi, Muhammad. 2019. “Issues In Community Development 
Service Scheme Of Nigeria ’ S National Youth Service Corps And Its 
Relevance To Community National Youth Service Corps And Its 
Relevance To Community,” no. December 2016. 
Adekeye, Olujide A., Emmanuel O. Amoo, Sussan O. Adeusi, Olufunke O. 
Chenube, Frederick Ahmadu, and Joseph Idoko. 2019. “Dataset on 
Perception of Public College Students on Underage Drinking in 
Nigeria.” Data in Brief 24. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dib.2019.103930. 
Adekeye, Olujide A., Jonathan A. Odukoya, Olufunke Chenube, David O. 
Igbokwe, Angie Igbinoba, and Elizabeth I. Olowookere. 2017. 
“Subjective Experiences and Meaning Associated with Drug Use 
and Addiction in Nigeria: A Mixed Method Approach.” Global 
Journal of Health Science 9 (8). 
https://doi.org/10.5539/gjhs.v9n8p57. 
Akanbi, Muritala Ishola, Godwin Augustina, Anyio Bahago Theophilus, 
Muhammad Muritala, and Ajiboye Stephen Ajiboye. 2015. “Impact 
of Substance Abuse on Academic Performance among Adolescent 
Students of Colleges of Education in Kwara State, Nigeria.” Journal 
of Education and Practice 6 (28). 
Atoyebi, Oladele A, and Olufunmilayo E Atoyebi. 2013. “Pattern of 
Substance Abuse among Senior Secondary School Students in a 
Southwestern Nigerian City.” International Review of Social 
Sciences and Humanities 4 (2). 
Chaudhury, Suprakash, Sai Krishna Tikka, and Ajay Kumar Bakhla. 
2016. “Impact of Substance Use Disorder on Presentation of 
Schizophrenia.” Dual Diagnosis Open Access 01 (02). 
https://doi.org/10.21767/2472-5048.100007. 
Cilliears, CD, K Pretorius, and LR Van der Westhuizen. 2011. “A 
National Benchmarking Survey of Student Counselling 
Centres/Units in South Africa.” South African Journal of Higher 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                               Usman Bakari  
186 
 
Education 24 (1). https://doi.org/10.4314/sajhe.v24i1.63428. 
Garechaba, Gotsang, Mashalla Yohana, and Seloilwe Esther. 2017. 
“Perceptions of School Going Adolescents about Substance Abuse 
in Ramotswa, Botswana.” Journal of Public Health and 
Epidemiology 9 (6). https://doi.org/10.5897/jphe2017.0930. 
Gobir, A.A, M. N. Sambo, S. S. Bashir, A. A. Olorukoba, O.E Ezeh, M. Bello, 
B. Usman, et al. 2016. Prevalence And Determinants Of Drug 
Abuse Among Youths In A Rural Community In North Western 
Nigeria. Tropical Journal of Health Sciences. Vol. 24. 
Haig, Lindsay. 2018. “A Phenomenological Exploration of Female 
Participants’ Experiences of Mindfulness-Based Relapse 
Prevention (MBRB).” Dissertation Abstracts International: Section 
B: The Sciences and Engineering. 
Idowu, Ajibola, Ayodele Olatayo Aremu, Aderonke Olumide, and 
Ayotunde Olumuyiwa Ogunlaja. 2018. “Substance Abuse among 
Students in Selected Secondary Schools of an Urban Community of 
Oyo-State, South West Nigeria: Implication for Policy Action.” 
African Health Sciences 18 (3). 
https://doi.org/10.4314/ahs.v18i3.36. 
Khoury, Lamya, Yilang L. Tang, Bekh Bradley, Joe F. Cubells, and Kerry J. 
Ressler. 2010. “Substance Use, Childhood Traumatic Experience, 
and Posttraumatic Stress Disorder in an Urban Civilian 
Population.” Depression and Anxiety 27 (12). 
https://doi.org/10.1002/da.20751. 
Kiriru, Ann. 2018. “Effect of Awareness on Substance Abuse among 
University Students in a Selected Private University in Kenya.” 
African Research Journal of Education and Social Sciences 5 (2). 
Koehn, Corinne, Linda O’Neill, and John Sherry. 2012. “Hope-Focused 
Interventions in Substance Abuse Counselling.” International 
Journal of Mental Health and Addiction 10 (3). 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11469-011-9360-3. 
Mallin, Robert. 2003. “Therapist’s Guide to Substance Abuse 
Intervention.” The Primary Care Companion to The Journal of 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Campaign... 
187 
 
Clinical Psychiatry 05 (06). 
https://doi.org/10.4088/pcc.v05n0609. 
Medina-Mora, María Elena. 2005. “Prevention of Substance Abuse: A 
Brief Overview.” World Psychiatry : Official Journal of the World 
Psychiatric Association (WPA) 4 (1). 
Mehdizadeh Zare Anari, A., and F. Hajhoseini. 2012. “P-67 - The 
Relation between Emotional Intelligence and Instable Personality 
in Substance Abusers.” European Psychiatry 27. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/s0924-9338(12)74234-7. 
Myllymäki, Laura, Heidi Ruotsalainen, and Maria Kääriäinen. 2017. 
“Adolescents’ Evaluations of the Quality of Lifestyle Counselling in 
School-Based Health Care.” Scandinavian Journal of Caring 
Sciences 31 (4). https://doi.org/10.1111/scs.12420. 
O’Connell, Mary Ellen, Thomas Boat, and Kenneth E. Warner. 2009. 
Preventing Mental, Emotional, and Behavioral Disorders among 
Young People: Progress and Possibilities. Preventing Mental, 
Emotional, and Behavioral Disorders Among Young People: 
Progress and Possibilities. https://doi.org/10.17226/12480. 
Perpetua Ngosoo, Chia,. 2016. “Drug Abuse and Health of the Nigerian 
Youth: A Call to ‘Listen First.’” Science Journal of Public Health 4 
(5). https://doi.org/10.11648/j.sjph.s.2016040501.12. 
Siddiqui, Aesha, and Abdulrhman Salim. 2016. “Awareness of Substance 
Use and Its Associated Factors in Young Saudi Students.” Journal 
of Medical and Allied Sciences 6 (2). 
https://doi.org/10.5455/jmas.217010. 
Spaid, Wanda M., and Stuart P. Squires. 2006. “Changing Social Work 
Students’ Attitudes toward Substance Abusers through the Use of 
an Abstinence Assignment: A Pilot Study.” Journal of Teaching in 
the Addictions 4 (2). https://doi.org/10.1300/J188v04n02_03. 
Spector, Anya Y., and Rogério M. Pinto. 2011. “Let’s Talk about Sex: 
Helping Substance Abuse Counsellors Address HIV Prevention 
with Men Who Have Sex with Men.” Culture, Health and Sexuality 
13 (4). https://doi.org/10.1080/13691058.2010.550322. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                               Usman Bakari  
188 
 
Tennant, Forest S. 2019. “Awareness of Substance Abuse and Other 
Health-Related Behaviors among Preschool Children.” In Drug 
Abuse: Foundation for a Psychosocial Approach. 
https://doi.org/10.4324/9781315224695-14. 
Vaughn, Michael G., Marcia T. Ollie, J. Curtis McMillen, Lionel Scott, and 
Michelle Munson. 2007. “Substance Use and Abuse among Older 
Youth in Foster Care.” Addictive Behaviors. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.addbeh.2006.12.012. 
Weiten, W. (2005). Concept charts for study and review for psychology: 
Themes and Variations. Six Edition: Breefer version. 
Wikipedia. (2016). Drug. Retrieved from  https://en.wikipedia.  
org/wiki /Drug 
WHO (2016) Facts and figures Retrieved 12/5/2016 from 
http://www.who.int/substance_abuse/facts/en/ 
WHO (2014). World health rankings live longer live better. Retrieved 
4/5/ 2016 from http://www. worldlifeexpectancy.com/ country-
health-profile/Nigeria. 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and the Internally Displaced Persons in Northeast Nigeria... 
189 
 
 1010 1010    
    The NYSC and the Internally Displaced Persons in 
Northeast Nigeria, c. 2009-2019 
 
 
Nta, Abasiama Joseph 
 
 
Introduction 
It is a well-known fact that Nigeria has one of the highest numbers of 
displaced persons in the world and in 2018 accounted for about 10 
million internally displaced by conflict and generalised violence.1 This 
does not include internal displacement induced by development 
projects that are regulated by states. Between July and October, 2018 
the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) estimated that a 
                                                           1 E. Anuforo, V. Ojugbana and B. Alade, “Safeguarding Dignity, Health of 
Pregnant Teenagers in IDP Camps”, Daily Newsletter, 2019, 9. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                               Nta, Abasiama Joseph 
190 
 
total of 7.7 million people were affected by inter-communal conflicts 
and flooding across the federation.2 Out of the affected population, 2.1 
million people were internally displaced (IDPs) as a result of terrorist 
activities.3 
Boko Haram terrorist group has been killing people and destroying 
homes, leading to the influx of millions of internally displaced persons 
who have turned Maiduguri and other major cities in the northern 
region into camps. There are over 1.5 million IDPs that are displaced 
from the six states in the northeast region of Nigeria who were left with 
no option than to leave the comfort of their homes to take refuge in 
major cities as IDPs.4 
In 2013, the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) gave a 
report that Boko Haram terrorists had forced residents of various 
communities in the northeast region to take refuge in Maiduguri, Yola, 
Bauchi, Gombe, Jalingo, Damaturu, Kaduna, Kano and Abuja but as at 
July 2016, about 1.5 million IDPs are being camped in various public 
school premises, newly-completed but yet to be commissioned housing 
estates, as well as among host communities in northeast, and other 
regions. IDPs largely remain within the boundaries of their nations.5 It 
is the sole duty of the federal government and state government to 
carter for the humanitarian needs of IDPs. International law precludes 
IDPs from enjoying the same status as refugees. The Protection of IDPs 
including activities that are meant to ensure that their rights are 
protected must be clearly defined in all interventions. This includes 
safety from armed attack; sexual violence; the right to participate in 
making decisions that affect them; and the fundamental rights of the 
                                                           2National Emergency Management Agency Annual Report, Abuja: Yaliman Press 
Ltd, 2013 3 . Anuforo, V. Ojugbana and B. Alade, “Safeguarding Dignity, Health of 
Pregnant...9. 4National Emergency Management...2013. 5National Emergency Management...2013. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and the Internally Displaced Persons in Northeast Nigeria... 
191 
 
IDPs.6 The Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and 
Social Development which is at the forefront of catering for IDPs in 
Nigeria is overwhelmed in providing protection to all the displaced by 
ensuring that; IDPs do not suffer rape and thefts, female IDPs do not 
resort to prostitution to support themselves, food or non-food items 
are not stolen from IDP recipients and armed groups do not live or 
circulate in IDP camps. The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) 
Scheme was created with the sole aim of reconciling Nigeria after the 
civil war assists the government in the protection, counselling, and 
medical provision for IDPs. It is against this background that this study 
examines the impact of NYSC in catering for IDPs in the northeast 
region of Nigeria. 
 
Conceptual Clarifications 
Internally Displaced Persons  
Internally Displaced Persons under international law are persons or 
groups of persons who have been forced or obligated to flee or to have 
cause to leave their homes or place of habitual residence in particular, 
due to or in order to stave off the effect of armed conflict, violations of 
human rights, situations of generalized violence, natural or manmade 
disasters, to another place considered relatively safe within their own 
national borders.7 
 
NYSC Surgical Teams 
In this paper, NYSC surgical teams refers to medical doctors, nurses and 
other medical personnel who are undergoing the compulsory one year 
                                                           6 A. Bilak,  et al, “Global Report on Internal Displacement”, Internal Displaced 
Monitoring Center and Norwegian Refugee Council, 2016. 7 T. Ocha, Guiding Principles on Internally Displacement , New York: UN, 2003, 
89-91. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                               Nta, Abasiama Joseph 
192 
 
NYSC scheme in IDP camps, healthcare facilities in the northeast region 
of Nigeria. 
 
National Youth Service Corps: A Historical Note 
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) was established in 1973 by 
the government of General Yakubu Gowon.8 The historical background 
of the Scheme is traceable to the events that took place in Nigeria 
towards the last half of the 1960s.9 The years 1967-1970 were 
characterised by the Nigerian civil war. At the end of the war, the 
General Gowon administration came up with new policies that would 
promote post-conflict peace, reconciliation, rehabilitation and 
reconstruction. Consequently, the vital need for national unity led to 
the birth of the NYSC. The NYSC programme was established through 
Decree 24 of 22nd May, 1973.10 It states that the NYSC is being 
established with a view to the proper encouragement and development 
of communities through the youths of Nigeria and the promotion of 
national unity.  
The youth are exposed to the modes of living of the people in different 
parts of the country with a view to removing prejudices, eliminating 
ignorance and confirming at first hand the many similarities among 
Nigerians of all ethnic groups.  To encourage members of the service 
Corps to seek at the end of their Corps service, career employment all 
over the country thus promoting the free movement of labour.  
i. To induce employers, partly through their experience with 
members of the service Corps, to employ more readily 
qualified Nigerians irrespective of their states of origin and,   
                                                           8 A. Adedeji, “The National Youth Service Corps: Its Genesis and Formative 
Years”; in M. M. Owosina, S. O. Ojo, J. A. Ibitoye, J. Yusuf, M. B. Abodunde, 
Adamolekun and M. F. Kolajo (Eds.) A Compendium of the National Youth Service 
Corps Scheme: Ten Years of Service to the Nation, Lagos: Super Colour 
Productions, 1983, 18-47 9 A. Adedeji, “The National Youth Service Corps: Its Genesis and Formative...23. 10 A. Adedeji, “The National Youth Service Corps: Its Genesis and Formative...23. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and the Internally Displaced Persons in Northeast Nigeria... 
193 
 
ii. To enable Nigerian youths to acquire the spirit of self-
reliance.11 
However, the contemporary Nigerian society has witnessed the death 
of some Corps members in states that they were posted to serve. The 
violent killings of many Nigerian graduates serving the country in 
different towns and cities in Nigeria, and particularly the Boko Haram 
menace in the northeast forced  Corps members not to accept posting 
to the northeast for the mandatory one-year National Youth Service 
(NYSC) scheme because of insecurity prevailing in the country. Prior to 
the emergence of insurgency, the northeast region depended largely on 
the youth service scheme to provide a substantial portion of trained 
professionals required to run its post-primary schools and primary 
medical/health centres.  
Therefore, the refusal of Corps members to accept postings to the state 
had created a horrible shortage of qualified personnel, and that has 
made provision of essential social services even more difficult to run in 
the state. Schools, offices, and hospitals suffer from Boko Haram attacks 
every time. The destructions of towns and villages by Boko Haram 
insurgents had led to the total collapse of social relationships and 
economic structures that had existed for many years before those 
towns and villages were attacked and destroyed by the terrorist 
organization.  
 
Boko Haram and Internally Displaced Persons in the Northeast 
Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) are security and social problems 
that affect not only Nigeria but the entire world. In Nigeria, has had its 
share of Internal Displaced Persons (IDPs). During the Nigerian civil 
war between 1967 and 1970, a good number of eastern Nigerians 
crossed Nigeria’s border to become refugees in Cameroon, Chad, Niger, 
but the majority of south easterners were internally displaced within 
                                                           11 A. Adedeji, “The National Youth Service Corps: Its Genesis and Formative...30. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                               Nta, Abasiama Joseph 
194 
 
Nigeria. More recently, constant ethnic and religious clashes, communal 
clashes due to boundary disputes, grazing land disputes between 
farmers and pastoralists and widespread flooding across states in 
Nigeria which became unprecedented in2012 have all converged to 
bring the issue of internal displacement to the front burner of political 
discourse and federal government policy and consequent 
appropriation of funds.12 
The conflict in the North-East of Nigeria arising from the Boko Haram 
insurgency which emerged in 2009appears to have triggered the 
highest displacement of hundreds of thousands of affected victims who 
have been compelled by the intensity of the conflict (both terrorist 
attacks and military operations against the terrorists) to flee their 
homes, businesses and farms, to safer parts of the country. More  than 
1.76 million people are internally displaced in the North Eastern region 
of Nigeria. It is estimated that the total number of IDPs in the North 
East and the North Central Nigeria is over 2 million people, making 
Nigeria host to the six largest IDP populations in the world.13 Borno, 
Adamawa and Yobe States experienced a critical increase in IDPs 
throughout 2015 and 2016 In February 2015, the number of IDPs 
displaced as a result of the armed conflict was estimated at 946,000; by 
October 2016, this figure had risen to an estimated 1.68 million. Of 
these, the majority are located in Borno State, including approximately 
528,000 IDPs in Maiduguri Metropolis, Borno State, and 864,000 IDPs 
in areas outside of Maiduguri Metropolis, often beyond the reach of 
humanitarian actors.14 While 22% of these IDPs are residing in official 
IDP camps and camp-like settings, the majority are residing within the 
host community.15 
                                                           12 S. Kabiru, “The Nature and Management of Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) 
in Northern Nigeria from 2012-2015”, Unpublished B.Sc Project, Danfodiyo 
University, Sokoto, 2017, 34-37. 13Kabiru, “The Nature and Management of Internally Displaced...37. 14 S. Kabiru, “The Nature and Management of Internally Displaced...37. 15 S. Kabiru, “The Nature and Management of Internally Displaced...39. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and the Internally Displaced Persons in Northeast Nigeria... 
195 
 
From the forgoing, the displaced populations are living in squalid 
conditions characterized by overcrowding and limited access to safe, 
sanitary and dignified accommodation. IDPs and returnees in Nigeria 
hosted in camps and displacement sites are often living in congested 
shelters or isolated in insecure or inhospitable areas, making them 
vulnerable to exploitation and abuse. The situation is most precarious 
in settlements such as camps, displacement sites, and unfinished 
buildings. The lack of shelter is, therefore, a major and persistent 
challenge and one of the main barriers to return. Displaced people in 
the region also face precarious health conditions and have poor access 
to health services. The health problems they report are mostly related 
to the change in their living conditions. 
In addition, access to food and drinking water, as well as meeting their 
basic needs, remain problematic for most displaced people, especially 
in semi-arid regions. Limitations in access, availability, and quality have 
made water the most significant source of conflict between the 
displaced and host communities. Severe malnutrition in Nigeria and 
asylum countries has become more prevalent as the quantity and 
quality of available food has dramatically decreased. Some 5.2 million 
people are facing acute food insecurity in north-east Nigeria, an 
increase of 50 per cent since March 2016.16 Affected households have 
had consecutive years of restricted income levels, destruction of assets 
and livelihoods, and reduced food access, leading to an increase in 
negative coping strategies in IDP camps.  
 
Effect of the IDP Crisis on Children 
Issues related to children have been the most thoughtful to all 
civilizations and cultures in human history. In developing countries and 
societies on the African continent, the coming of children into families 
                                                           16Adeejat-Kubra, “Towards the Evolution of Legal and Institutional Frameworks 
for the Protection of Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in Nigeria”, International 
Journal of Sustainable Development, Vol. 6,  No.5,  2018, 141-153. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                               Nta, Abasiama Joseph 
196 
 
are heralded with elaborate preparations, cultural and religious rituals 
and ceremonies often occasioned by gifts to the celebrants (families). 
This is as governments most times institute policies and programs that 
cater and support pregnant women and thus encourage safe deliveries. 
The Nigerian society sees children as its glitz, future hopes and 
strength. Below are some of the predicaments of children as a result of 
the crisis in the northeast but it is not limited to the following. 
 
Child Labour Occasioned by the IDPs Crisis 
Child labour is simply the exploitation of innocent children under 18 
years to undertake economic activities like mining and farming among 
others.17 It could also be referred to as work that is mentally, physically, 
socially or morally dangerous and harmful to children and interferes 
with their schooling by depriving them of opportunity to attend school 
as well as impede their growth and development. Education helps to 
develop the child’s personality, talent, and mental and physical abilities 
to the fullest extent, thereby, preparing him/her for an active adult life 
in the society. Until the child reaches six years, the immediate family 
members are the main and often the only support system needed to 
ensure his/her healthy growth and development. According to report, 
about 5000 children were working illegally in the northeast.18 This is 
against the United Nations General Assembly Child Right Act of 1989 
Article 32, which asserts that children should not be encouraged in 
work deemed to be hazardous or interfere with the child’s education, 
or to be harmful to the child’s health. The children’s Act, 1998 (Act 
560), stipulates that child’s exploitation is prohibited.19 Unfortunately, 
as a result of the prevailing crisis in the Northeast the plight of children 
looks grim as they are the most affected by draught, illiteracy, and 
                                                           17 M. Ogege, “Insecurity and Sustainable Development: The Boko Haram Debacle 
in Nigeria”. American International Journal of Social Science, Vol. 2 No.7, 
October, 2013, 5. 18 M. Ogege, “Insecurity and Sustainable Development: The Boko Haram...5. 19Adeejat-Kubra, “Towards the Evolution of Legal and Institutional...135. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and the Internally Displaced Persons in Northeast Nigeria... 
197 
 
diseases. Poverty is the greatest single force which creates the 
conditions for the flow of children in the work place.  
About 5000 children under 15 years old in the northeast are in formal 
employment working long hours with poor pay and were exposed to 
substantial health hazards which highlight the deleterious impact of 
child labour on the child’s physical and emotional wellbeing.20 What 
obtains today is that probably, due to poverty, mostly as a result of 
crisis in the Northeast, parents in IDP camps handover their children to 
cities dwellers, who must often fail to put them through school, rather 
using them as unpaid servants or street hawkers.  
Reports exist of gory stories of road accidents, inhuman treatment such 
as chopping of hands, starvation, bathing in oil or hot water on these 
children by their care givers. Hawking by boys and girls is thus 
widespread in the northeast and parents clearly recognize that the 
practice holds dangers for children.  
 
Child Begging Occasioned by the IDPs Crisis 
The use of children for street begging is a worldwide problem and 
commonly seen in the northeast. Child beggars are victims of neglect 
occasioned by the Boko Haram insurrection in northern Nigeria where 
the Moslem religion is predominantly practiced and begging is allowed, 
young boys and girls lead handicapped adults about on the streets to 
beg. They receive pittance for their services. Apart from this, because 
many parents believe that good parenting means that children should 
be brought up strictly and with religious training, most parents in IDP 
camps in Abuja sends mostly male, but also some female children, to 
the Koranic Mallams who are versed in teaching the Koran. Many of the 
Mallams are not educated in the western sense. Some parents, having 
entrusted their children to these religious teachers, never visit them or 
                                                           20IDMC, Internal Displacement monitoring Centre,  Nigeria: Multiple 
Displacement Crises over Shadowed by Boko  Haram. Sub-Saharan Africa, 
Nigeria. December 9, 2014. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                               Nta, Abasiama Joseph 
198 
 
inquire about them subsequently. The Mallams consequently live off 
the children, sending them onto the streets to beg and to forage for 
food on refuse dumps. According to report, parents and Mallams were 
found to be both responsible for the practice. The parents of child 
beggars were most often physically disabled and destitute, or those 
who lost their source of livelihood as a result of crisis in the Northeast 
while the Mallams use the proceeds of beggar children to support their 
schools. The Mallams often move from city to city and when they die, or 
if the beggars whom the children help, die, the children reportedly 
become delinquent street dwellers if male, and prostitutes if female. 
The children are thus, exposed to health hazards and are ill-cared for, 
and are destitutes.  
 
The Effect of the IDP’s Crisis on Women and Children 
Conflict situations across nations are experienced by both men and 
women differently. Though women do not participate in active 
hostilities in majority but they overwhelmingly suffer great harm. 
Feminist scholarship, throughout decades has shown that wars are 
gendered in their causes and consequences. From the kind of 
language used by the state leaders, to the policies employed by 
various armed groups in conflicts, a gendered ideology always 
remains at work as a consequence of this; women are targeted with 
various forms of gender-based violence.21 
For one to understand how women are surviving the conflict, we 
should be aware of what exactly the challenges of being a woman 
suffering abuse. There is need to also know the gender specific 
challenges of surviving a conflict in order to understand how and 
why it is inevitable to have women on the table when negotiating for 
peace. For us to find solutions to the gender gap in post-conflict 
resolutions, the roots of gendered armed conflicts must be explored. 
                                                           21Muhammad SaniSidi, “The Humanitarian Consequences of the Boko Haram 
Insurgency in Nigeria”. Disaster Management Platform, Abuja, August 2015, 18. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and the Internally Displaced Persons in Northeast Nigeria... 
199 
 
In order to work towards the possible solutions of the systematic 
victimization of women during armed conflicts through a gender 
inclusive path, there is need to look into these patterns of violence 
and understand how they work. Post-war justice provided by 
international law through hybrid or ad hoc tribunals is critical but is 
not the only solution. 
As for any conflict in the world, women and children are the worst-
hit. Women and children constitute the majority of the internally 
displaced in any conflict. They are struggling to keep the families 
together and to provide food and shelter to their children. The 
problem for them is not only this unforeseen alteration in the 
conventional gender roles of the society but also gender-based 
violence in the form of harassment and humiliation. They have lost 
family members, ran out of money, do not have enough to eat, 
braving daily threats to their safety and are being forced into 
isolation for losing all of this. 
Most of them have reported being sexually harassed by police and 
local security guards on the process of running away from conflict 
zone. Some of them confessed that they were offered help in return 
for sexual favours. In the absence of formal arrangements to 
accommodate these unwanted displaced persons, women are forced 
to live with their children and belongings out in the open sky, braving 
the harshest of weather, rain, or freezing cold.22 These women are 
increasingly falling prey to sexual harassment, exploitation, and sex 
trade in return for basic aid. From security personnel to charity 
organizations, the miserable condition of these women is exploited 
by these fraudulent local people. 
The effect of the crisis mentioned above and numerous others left out is 
that women and children are the most common, helpless and 
                                                           22Muhammad SaniSidi, “The Humanitarian Consequences of the Boko...18. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                               Nta, Abasiama Joseph 
200 
 
defenseless victims of conflict, who suffer debilitating long-term 
consequences. Whilst severe conflict, state failure, civil and ethnic wars 
increase male mortality due to direct participation, female mortality is 
a result of indirect armed conflict participation with devastating public 
health impacts. Women suffer disproportionately due to disability; 
poor living conditions; malnutrition; sexual disease; pregnancy related 
diseases and intentional injury” in conflict and post-conflict scenarios. 
Post-traumatic stress disorder, anxiety, depression and suicide are 
among some of the more crippling mental health conditions.23 
Sexual violence, rape, the ‘burden of caring for others’, which increases 
in times of conflict, makes women vulnerable and imperils the lives and 
futures of their children with generational effects. From records, it has 
been clearly been shown that the Internally Displaced Persons camp 
that was set up by the government during the crisis was flooded by 
women and children. Humanitarian Non-Governmental Organisations 
(NGOs) estimates that during the last ten years, an estimated 5000 
children have also been killed as a result of armed conflicts, while the 
young survivors have been left traumatized, exploited, wounded, 
mutilated or disabled.24 
Separation from parents and the extended family makes children 
vulnerable to sexual victimization and civilian targets of abduction, and 
maiming in addition to involuntary enlistment as informant or 
perpetrator of violent and forced labour. Lack of access to healthcare, 
basic sanitation, and education has irreversible lifetime consequences. 
 
Successes, Challenges and Prospects of NYSC in IDP Camps 
The NYSC is one of the agencies which provide humanitarian support to 
victims of insurgency in the northeast region. Although several 
international and national agencies are also catering for the IDPs in the 
                                                           23Muhammad SaniSidi, “The Humanitarian Consequences of the Boko...18. 24IDMC, Internal Displacement monitoring Centre,  Nigeria: Multiple...2014. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and the Internally Displaced Persons in Northeast Nigeria... 
201 
 
country, the NYSC’s apt response machinery to crises was handy and 
effective in saving hundreds of lives that could have been lost. There is 
no gainsaying violence in the North-east has affected millions of lives 
negatively, an estimated population of 2.1 million people are said to 
have been internally displaced with about 1.8million host population.25 
The humanitarian needs of this population have increased overtime in 
the Northeast, reason being that, the advancement of the Boko Haram 
insurgency into the interior cut off healthcare provision and food for 
the affected communities and IDPs in particular.26 The result was acute 
malnutrition both in adult and children.  
Starvation and malnutrition both in adult and children due to lack of 
food became pronounced in the northeast. In furtherance, lack of 
medical care resulting to diseases and deaths among the displaced 
people was at an abysmal rate. Thus, it will be just to say that, several 
humanitarian actors have engaged in interventions that would improve 
at least the living condition and health of the IDPs. An organization that 
has significantly matched up to standard with its humanitarian 
response in the Northeast is the NYSC. 
In 2017, the NYSC scheme increased its humanitarian aid response in 
the North-east and some other parts of the country where communal 
clashes and urban conflicts were visible. Worthy of note is the relief 
support materials and provision of food, posting of Corps members to 
IDP camps to work as counsellors and medical personnel. The NYSC 
through its Community Development Service (CDS) programme also 
provided access to clean water and medical care. On several occasions, 
the Corps members working as counsellors facilitated the restoration 
of missing or broken family ties caused by the crises in the region. In 
Borno state for instance, Corps members in partnership with the 
                                                           25 B. Murtala,“Boko Haram Insurgency and Spate of Insecurity in Nigeria: 
Manifestation of Governance Crises”. Research on Humanities and Social 
Sciences, Vol. 4, No. 10, 2015, 24-26. 26 B. Murtala,“Boko Haram Insurgency and Spate of...26. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                               Nta, Abasiama Joseph 
202 
 
National Emergency Management (NEMA)  moved into perilous areas 
like Sabon Gari, Damboa, Dikwa, Monguno, Gamboru-Ngala and so on 
where they assisted residents and IDPs with food, medicare and 
counselling where necessary.27 
A major concern of the NYSC was to get to the hard-to-reach areas 
where there was severe food shortage and hunger. Many of these 
communities missed out on planting season for more than 3 years. It is 
not an exaggeration that the people remained dependent on hand outs   
from donor agencies until such a time that their crops are harvested. 
Worried by the plight, Corps members through CDS provided food 
rations for three months to 500 IDPs in the Northeast, 3195 IDPs both 
in the North East received essential household items through the CDS.28 
Like all other sectors of human existence in the northeast, the health 
sector had its gory story of the Boko Haram attacks on the region. 
Hospitals and installations were abruptly brought to ruins. Doctors, 
nurses and other health and medical personnel were killed, while 
survivors fled into different directions to safer places leading to 
complete breakdown of the system. The NYSC in response provided 
support to primary and mobile state health clinics in Borno, Yobe and 
Adamawa through the regular chain of medical supplies, equipment 
supply and training of locals by Corps members. NYSC surgical teams 
also provided cares for the wounded and IDPs in need of emergency 
surgical care in Borno State Specialist Hospital. A total of 200 patients 
attended 14 NYSC supported Centre’s for primary health care and 6 
mobile clinics serving IDPs, returnees and residents in the northeast 
region. A total of 1000 children were in NYSC supported clinics in the 
North east, while about 649 children who suffered from acute 
malnutrition were also treated at the NYSC supported clinics in the 
                                                           27National Emergency Management Agency, “Federal Government Off Massive 
Distribution of Relief Materials in States affected by the Insurgency”.  September 
21,2014, 1-2. 28Hamza Suleiman, “NYSC Offers Free Medical Services to 1,000 IDPs in Borno, 
NN, 29 September, 2020, 11. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and the Internally Displaced Persons in Northeast Nigeria... 
203 
 
region. A total of 700 wounded patients were treated by the NYSC 
medical doctors in Maiduguri, out of whom 55 were hospitalized.29 In a 
similar effort, NYSC members also provided mental health and 
psychosocial support to 158 IDPs in the region.30 
Statistically, only 10% of over 2milliom IDPs are living in the IDP 
camps. Most IDPs resides in host communities temporarily.31This led to 
acute shortage and breakdown of infrastructure both at the camps and 
in the communities due to excessive over-stretching of the existing 
facilities such as water and sanitation. However, solutions were not far 
to seek as the NYSC intervened in these areas by improving access to 
good water and hygiene through the CDS. Consequently, a total of 
130,000 returnees in the North east including the Middle Belt were 
assisted to have access to improved water and their hygiene and 
sanitation conditions.32At inception the armed conflict exacerbated a 
difficult access to healthcare in the northeast as most parts of the 
region is underdeveloped. Many clinics and health care centres were in 
shambles caused by severe attacks and the health personnel fled for 
safety. The NYSC had to support and collaborate with primary health 
care centres under the Ministries of Health in Adamawa, Borno and 
Yobe states respectively. NYSC assisted with medicine and also gave 
technical support for the identification and treatment of diseases. NYSC 
members who are doctors provided care for the wounded in need of 
emergency surgical care in the north-east and also trained staff of 
Nigerian hospitals countrywide to enhance their skills in the treatment 
and management of wounded patients. Furthermore, the NYSC also 
provided psychosocial support for trauma-affected victims of the 
armed conflict, security agents in IDP camps and volunteers assisting 
                                                           29Hamza Suleiman, “NYSC Offers Free Medical Services to 1,000 IDPs...11. 30Hamza Suleiman, “NYSC Offers Free Medical Services to 1,000 IDPs...11. 31Muhammad SaniSidi, “The Humanitarian Consequences of the Boko...18. 32Kabiru, “The Nature and Management of Internally Displaced...67. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                               Nta, Abasiama Joseph 
204 
 
them in discharging their duty.33The NYSC through Corps members 
posted to the northeast also provided the following services: 
i. More than 5000 patients, including 1500 children, attended 25 
NYSC-supported centres for primary health care and 4 mobile 
clinics serving the displaced, returnees, and residents in north-
eastern Nigeria.  
ii. Over 6000 children were delivered in NYSC-supported clinics.  
Around 9000 children under five suffering from severe acute 
malnutrition were treated in NYSC-supported clinics in 
northeast Nigeria.   
iii. More than 10,000 people affected by the armed conflict and 
other situations of violence received psychosocial support.34 
The high numbers of displaced people in the north-east puts a big 
strain on human basic needs, such as resources like water and 
sanitation installations. Corps members through CDS upgraded water 
points and sanitation facilities in displacement camps and affected host 
communities. 
The period of War expose civilians and those who try to give aids as 
potential target. Providing assistance while protecting the providers is 
a crucial issue for all stakeholders involved in relief, refugee and human 
rights work in conflict settings. The increasing numbers of NGOs and 
their workers has intensified the problems of inadequate 
security.35Corps members working in conflict zones are vulnerable and 
at times experience real dangers. Although there is very little study or 
documentation, many sources agree that in recent years there has been 
an increase in the number and degree of threats to Corps members. 
There exist a number of reasons for this. Notably, Boko Haram view 
                                                           33 Austin Ajayi, “NYSC to Post Corps Members to IDPs Camps” Premium Times, 
April 28, 2018. 34Chuka Francis, “NYSC Offers Free Medical Treatments to 1000 IDPS in Borno” 
Daily Times,  29 May, 2020. 35Muhammad SaniSidi, “The Humanitarian Consequences of the Boko...18. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and the Internally Displaced Persons in Northeast Nigeria... 
205 
 
Corps members as “soft” targets which can easily be attacked due to 
their lack of communal links. 
Aside security threats which has led to a huge number of IDPs all over 
the country, it is pertinent to note that there are still security threats 
within the recognized IDP camps which range from suicide attacks, 
physical violence, theft, rape, even murder too. The major security 
threats to IDP camps are discussed further. Physical violence is a major 
nuisance posing security challenges even within the camps and to 
Corps members serving there. Such nefarious acts result to injuries and 
most times to death. 
The social conditions of the Corps members tend to get even more 
dangerous in cases where governments have collapsed and there is no 
exerted authority which can provide security. Mubi, Gombi in the early 
2013 can be used as an example of this, where aggressors frequently 
attacked banks. In less chaotic situations, Corps members face 
problems such as inadequate transportation and frequent delays by 
damaged roads, mines, bandits, snipers, unpredictable travel 
requirement and checkpoints. 
One important factor that is very glaring in Nigeria is cultural and 
religious diversity. Nigeria is made up of not less than two hundred and 
fifty (250) ethnic groups, each with their own peculiar language. Corp 
members are usually deployed to states other than their own.  The only 
medium of instruction and communication is the English language. 
Consequently, it is always difficult for Corps members to communicate 
effectively with the locals especially those in rural areas. This is very 
common in the northeast – a region which is still finding it very difficult 
to fully embrace Western education. The IDPs prefer to be taught in 
Hausa language which is widely spoken in the region.36 
                                                           36Muhammad SaniSidi, “The Humanitarian Consequences of the Boko...18. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                               Nta, Abasiama Joseph 
206 
 
Furthermore, Nigeria is roughly divided between a mainly Muslim 
north and mainly Christian south. So Corps members from one divide 
who may find themselves in another divide may unknowingly be doing 
something that insults the sensibilities of their host communities. For 
instance, Islam is a very conservative religion. Most parents of Islamic 
faith are deeply opposed to the teaching of sex education to their 
children. Cases have been established where parents in IDP camps 
came threatening Corps members because their daughters were 
reportedly taught how to maintain personal hygiene, including washing 
of inner wears regularly. This also extends to counselling and the 
teaching of the reproductive system in a subject like Biology where 
students are taught the various functions of the reproductive organs. 
While language barriers pose challenges on an everyday basis, 
miscommunication in IDP camps can become fatal. Without adequate 
strategies and language solutions in place to ensure effective 
communication, IDPs can lose the incentive to seek the healthcare and 
counselling they need. IDPs suffering from pain or illness are already 
anxious, and when patients cannot understand their doctors, errors are 
more likely to occur. Addressing language barriers are critical for Corps 
members in providing healthcare services that feels safe, trustworthy, 
and accommodating to all individuals.37 
NYSC members often use family members and friends of patients as 
interpreters in IDP camps, and that can present a series of problems. 
Such interpreters may lack the appropriate language skills and 
knowledge of medical terminology. Additionally, such communication 
compromises confidentiality, censors important information, and 
jeopardizes family dynamics, especially when children are used to 
interpret. According to Partida, studies show that the skills of trained 
interpreters go beyond an ability to speak a language, especially when 
                                                           37Njadvara Musa, “NYSC gives free Medical Services to 2,000 Borno IDPs, 
Guardian Nigeria, 13 September, 2020. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and the Internally Displaced Persons in Northeast Nigeria... 
207 
 
technical concepts have no translation in their language.38Having Corps 
members who speak the same language as his or her patients, 
especially if he or she is of a similar cultural background, can help 
Corps members serving in IDP camps accomplish the following: 
i. Save time 
ii. Eliminate errors in communication 
iii. Aid proper and effective diagnosis and treatment 
Also, bolstering security for Corps members and IDPs: The federal 
government should deploy more police in IDP camps and its environs; 
ensure they are better equipped; improve local ties to gather better 
intelligence; and respond speedily to early warnings and distress calls 
from Corps members and this will go a long way in making Corps 
members feel secured.  
 
Conclusion 
The Boko Haram insurgency which started in 2009 is a major factor 
that has led to a massive number of Internally Displaced Persons 
scattered all over the Northern region. The IDPs were moved from the 
affected areas to IDP camps so as to avoid further security threats. 
Interestingly, IDP camps which are supposed to be a place of safety are 
still challenged by other social vices which pose a threat to the security 
of the internally displaced persons and Corps members serving there. 
The major security threats in the IDP camps are physical violence, rape 
and theft/robbery. Some of these security threats are perpetuated by 
the officials who are supposed to maintain security and the rights of life 
for the internally displaced persons. And the major sets of people who 
are more vulnerable to these threats are Corps members, women and 
children. Having accessed all these, it is therefore recommended, that 
safety is not just by building camps but as well putting well-defined 
                                                           38 Ellie Kemp, “Language Barriers in the Humanitarian Response in North-eastern 
Nigeria” Crisis Response Group, 2018, 5. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                               Nta, Abasiama Joseph 
208 
 
measures towards ensuring security even within the camps as the IDPs 
are also vulnerable to suicide attacks. 
Secondly, the principles of taking care of Internally Displaced Persons 
should be upheld in high regards and responsibility both by the 
government officials and the IDPs themselves. 
Security is everybody’s business. This article recommends a stiffer 
punitive measure for anyone, both the security operatives and the IDPs 
themselves who engage in any act that threatens the security of Corps 
members and that of the IDPs. Also, the results of this study have 
revealed that IDPs have medical problems and counselling needs and 
the number of Corps members posted to IDP camps and other health 
facilities in the northeast are not enough to tackle these issues. So much 
more needs to be done and need to be acted upon very fast so as to 
avoid other forms of security threats may go beyond the capability of 
the security personnel. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and the Internally Displaced Persons in Northeast Nigeria... 
209 
 
Bibliography 
 
Oral Sources 
Celestine Ofonime, 30, Ex-Corp Member interviewed in Kaduna on 
March, 3, 2021 
John Godwin, 30, Ex-Corp Member interviewed in Kaduna on March, 3, 
2021 
 
Official Report 
IDMC, Internal Displacement monitoring Centre,  Nigeria: Multiple 
Displacement Crises over Shadowed by Boko  Haram. Sub-
Saharan Africa, Nigeria. December 9, 2014. 
National Emergency Management Agency, “Federal Government Off 
Massive Distribution of Relief Materials in States affected by the 
Insurgency”.  September 21,2014 
National Emergency Management Agency Annual Report, Abuja: 
Yaliman Press Ltd, 2013 
UNHCR, NHRC and FEMA, Protection Monitoring Report on IDP Sites in 
the Federal Capital Territory,July 15-16, 2020. 
UNHCR, NHRC and FEMA, Protection Monitoring Report on IDP Sites in 
the Federal Capital Territory, July 15-16, 2020. 
 
Books 
Ocha T., Guiding Principles on Internally Displacement, New York: UN, 
2003 
 
Edited Books 
Adedeji A., “The National Youth Service Corps: Its Genesis and 
Formative Years”; in M. M. Owosina, S. O. Ojo, J. A. Ibitoye, J. 
Yusuf, M. B. Abodunde, Adamolekun and M. F. Kolajo (Eds.) A 
Compendium of the National Youth Service Corps Scheme: Ten 
Years of Service to the Nation, Lagos: Super Colour Productions, 
1983 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                               Nta, Abasiama Joseph 
210 
 
Journal 
Adeejat-Kubra, “Towards the Evolution of Legal and Institutional 
Frameworks for the Protection of Internally Displaced Persons 
(IDPs) in Nigeria”, International Journal of Sustainable 
Development, Vol. 6,  No.5,  2018 
Bilak A.,  et al, “Global Report on Internal Displacement”, Internal 
Displaced Monitoring Center and Norwegian Refugee Council, 
2016. 
Ellie Kemp, “Language Barriers in the Humanitarian Response in North-
eastern Nigeria” Crisis Response Group, 2018 
Ogege M., “Insecurity and Sustainable Development: The Boko Haram 
Debacle in Nigeria”. American International Journal of Social 
Science, Vol. 2 No.7, October, 2013 
Muhammad Sani Sidi, “The Humanitarian Consequences of the Boko 
Haram Insurgency in Nigeria”. Disaster Management Platform, 
Abuja, August 2015. 
MurtalaB., “Boko Haram Insurgency and Spate of Insecurity in Nigeria: 
Manifestation of Governance Crises”. Research on Humanities 
and Social Sciences, Vol. 4, No. 10, 2015 
 
Unpublished Works 
Kabiru S., “The Nature and Management of Internally Displaced Persons 
(IDPs) in Northern Nigeria from 2012-2015”, Unpublished B.Sc 
Project, Danfodiyo University, Sokoto, 2017 
 
Newspaper 
Austin Ajayi, “NYSC to Post Corps Members to IDPs Camps” Premium 
Times, April 28, 2018. 
Chuka Francis, “NYSC Offers Free Medical Treatments to 1000 IDPS in 
Borno” Daily Times,  29 May, 2020. 
Anuforo, V. Ojugbana and B. Alade, “Safeguarding Dignity, Health of 
Pregnant Teenagers in IDP Camps”, Daily Newsletter, 2011 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC and the Internally Displaced Persons in Northeast Nigeria... 
211 
 
Funmi F., “Coping with Challenges of Internally Displaced Persons” 
Feature, Daily Independent, 2017. 
Hamza Suleiman, “NYSC Offers Free Medical Services to 1,000 IDPs in 
Borno, NN, 29 September, 2020. 
Njadvara Musa, “NYSC gives free Medical Services to 2,000 Borno IDPs, 
Guardian Nigeria, 13 September, 2020. 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                     Suleiman Bilal Ishaq 
212 
 
 11 1111 11    
    The National Youth Service Corps and Disaster 
Control: A Study of the Activities of the NYSC 
Emergency Vanguards with NEMA (National 
Emergency Management Agency) 
 
 
Suleiman Bilal Ishaq 
 
 
Introduction 
Efforts at fostering community development, and promoting NYSC 
collaboration with some Federal government specialised agencies have 
been issues of interest to various actors and stakeholders. 
Governments at all levels in Nigeria have their specific and perhaps 
unique policy and conventions of promoting community development 
activities. Similarly the NYSC has partnered with some government 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The National Youth Service Corps and Disaster Control: 
213 
 
agencies through its Community Development Services (CDS) to bring 
about meaningful changes in the society. To some extent, beneficiary 
communities have also been contributing significantly to the initiation, 
execution and management of community development 
projects/programmes.  
Emergencies and Disasters can either be natural or man-made. Floods, 
earth quakes, tornados; etc are classified as natural disasters since 
humans have little or no control over their occurrence. On the other 
hand, flood, explosions, epidemics, chemical/biological weapons, wars, 
land degradation, deforestation, desertification, wild land fires, loss of 
biodiversity, land, water and air pollution, climate change, sea level rise 
and ozone depletion are man-made occurrences since they are direct 
consequences of human actions and inactions. Natural or man-made 
disasters have devastating impacts on victims and environment 
because victims are often ill prepared for it.1 
The NYSC Emergency Vanguard are a group of NYSC members whose 
aim is to support the efforts of NEMA in the area of creating awareness 
on disaster management, disseminating information on how to manage 
disasters through Corps Emergency Vanguards, Public enlightenment 
on disaster management and control through the emergency 
Vanguards, disaster management, cooperating with NEMA on how to 
assist during emergencies and formation of emergency vanguard club 
in schools for the purpose of educating the students on how to address 
emergencies in case of any outbreak. 
This study is an attempt to examine the activities of the NYSC 
emergency vanguards with the NEMA especially in the area of 
emergency and disaster control. This work is divided into five sections 
apart from the introduction, the first section focuses on conceptual 
                                                           1 N.E. Anthony etal, “An Overview of Emergency Preparedness, Response and 
Disaster Management In Nigeria: A Study Of Nema” World Educators Forum: An 
International Journal, Vol. 11 No. 1, 2019, 285-306. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                     Suleiman Bilal Ishaq 
214 
 
clarifications of terms, the second section focuses on the background to 
the formation of the NYSC, and the third section focuses on NEMA and 
its activities, the fourth section focuses on the activities of the NYSC 
emergency vanguards with the NEMA, the fifth sections examines the 
challenges faced by Emergency Vanguards in their collaborative 
activities with NEMA and finally, conclusion. The work found out that 
despite some challenges impeding the progress of these collaborative 
efforts between NEMA and the NYSC Emergency Vanguards, they were 
able to still make meaningful contributions in assisting NEMA and to 
their host communities. 
 
Conceptual Clarification 
Disaster Control: Disaster, also called “calamity” and “catastrophe” is a 
sudden, devastating event that causes serious disruption of the 
functioning of a community or a society with widespread human, 
material, economic and/or environmental losses which exceed the 
ability of the affected community or society to cope using its own level 
of resources.2It is a multifaceted event, open to a range of different 
interpretations and though often caused by nature, may also have 
human origins. The combination of hazards, vulnerability, and inability 
to reduce the potential negative consequences of risk results in 
disaster. Traditionally, natural disasters have been seen as situations 
that create challenges and problems mainly of a humanitarian nature.3 
Disaster control aims to minimize the broad consequences of a disaster 
and demands full preparedness with regard to organizational 
readiness, communication, and coordination among all partners; 
resource availability; and professional engagement. 
 
                                                           2 P.L. Ingrassia et al. “Education and training initiatives for crisis management in 
the European Union: a web-based analysis of available programs”. Prehospital 
Disaster Medcine 2014; 29 (2): 115-26. 3Ingrassia et al. “Education and training… 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The National Youth Service Corps and Disaster Control: 
215 
 
Emergency Management: Emergency Management is the actions 
taken to prepare communities to be less vulnerable and better able to 
respond to emergencies. It could be organized activities undertaken to 
prevent, mitigate, prepare for, respond to, and recover from actual or 
potential emergencies. It is also, the organization and management of 
the resources and responsibilities for dealing with all humanitarian 
aspects of emergencies with the aim to reduce the harmful effects of all 
hazards.4 
Community Development Service: Community Development Service 
(CDS) is one of the four (4) Cardinal Programmes of NYSC in which 
corps members contribute positively to the development of their host 
communities throughout the period of national service. Since its 
creation in 1973, the National Youth Service Corps has been making 
great contributions in the social, political and economic transformation 
of the nation. In recent times, the scheme has been in the vanguard of 
the nation's drive to correct the imbalance in our rural-urban 
development through the various community development 
programmes executed by corps members. These programmes have 
revolutionized our communities in the areas of education, health care 
delivery, agriculture, communication, infrastructure, technology, 
economic empowerment, poverty eradication, social services and 
above all national consciousness and socio-cultural regeneration.5 
 
Background to the Establishment of NEMA 
Successive Nigerian Governments have promulgated laws and created 
policies to establish institutions or organizations that will impact the 
citizens positively. These institutions or organisations focused on 
establishing agencies for the purpose of alleviating the sufferings of 
                                                           4 “The United Nations Office of Disasters Risk Reduction” accessed 8/3/2021 
https://www.unisdr.org/we/inform/publications/47804 5“ABC” of Community Development Service” NYSC, NDHQ Abuja, October 
2014. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                     Suleiman Bilal Ishaq 
216 
 
victims who have been affected by natural or artificial disasters like 
windstorm, communal clash, fire disaster etc. What the government 
seek to achieve in establishing these agencies are stated in their broad 
objectives in relation to economic development which ultimately leads 
to the increase in the welfare of the people. Organised disaster 
management in Nigeria dates back to 1906, when the Fire Brigade was 
established with a mandate of fire fighting and other supplementary 
services during emergencies. This approach was however replaced 
with informal arrangements domiciled in the offices of the then Head of 
State and State Governors, as disaster response was considered a 
serious national issue. This arrangement continued until 1972/1973, 
when the country got hit with a devastating drought. The drought had 
negative socio-economic repercussions and there was loss of lives and 
properties, a development that led to the establishment of the National 
Emergency Relief Agency (NERA) in 1976. NERA’s main activity was 
the collection and distribution of relief materials to disaster victims. 
Considering the limited scope of the Agency, the government in 1993 
decided to expand its scope to include all areas of disasters. This was 
backed up with decree 199 of 1993, which raised the status of the 
agency to an independent body under the Presidency as a unit in the 
Secretary to the Government of the Federation’s Office. NERA later 
became National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) established 
through Act 12 (as amended) by Act 50 of 1999 as an agency 
supervised by the Presidency and is responsible for managing disasters 
in Nigeria. In addition to a new vision to build a culture of 
preparedness, prevention, response and community resilience to 
disaster in Nigeria, that were previously not captured by NERA.6 
                                                           6Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).“Emergency Management 
Guide for Business and Industry.” 
http://www.fema.gov/pdf/business/guide/bizindst.pdf  Accessed 12/03/21. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The National Youth Service Corps and Disaster Control: 
217 
 
NEMA’s mission is basically to co-ordinate resources towards efficient 
and effective disaster prevention, preparedness, mitigation and 
responses in the country. The occurrence of disaster often calls for the 
support of both national and international organisations especially, as 
far as the provision of relief materials is concerned. Consequently, 
disaster relief remains extremely important in disaster management. 
However, this approach alone does not proactively address the need to 
reduce the human and environmental impact of future disaster. Recent 
approaches in the area of disaster management are indicative of the 
need for a new paradigm that focuses on reducing the risk of disasters, 
with the involvement and participation of communities in the 
management of disaster effects. This emerging paradigm opines those 
countries objectives and the results or outcomes, that is, when the 
desired result on the target beneficiaries are not achieved, lack 
adequate resources funding and other infrastructures such as working 
equipment and good communication system.  They have issues of 
getting approval for relief interventions by the presidency as well as 
lack of political will by the ruling party during each civilian era. These 
are some of the problems militating against the implementation of 
disaster management by the National Emergency Management 
Agency7.  
 
The National Emergency Management Agency: Functions and 
Structural organisation 
The National Emergency Management Agency aims to coordinate 
resources towards efficient and effective disaster prevention, 
preparation, mitigation and response in Nigeria. They are also focused 
on building a culture of preparedness, prevention, and response and 
community resilience to disaster in Nigeria.8 
                                                           7N.E. Anthony etal, “An Overview of Emergency Preparedness, Response and 
Disaster Management In Nigeria: A Study Of Nema” World Educators Forum: An 
International Journal, Vol. 11 No. 1, 2019, 285-306. 8 “NEMA”http://nema.gov.ng/2131-2/ Accessed  on the 14/3/21 at 11:26am  
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                     Suleiman Bilal Ishaq 
218 
 
The activity of NEMA includes: 
 •  Collating data from relevant agencies so as to enhance 
forecasting, planning and field operation of disaster 
management;   
•  Educating and informing the public on disaster prevention and 
control measures;   
•  Co-ordinating and facilitating the provision of necessary 
resources for search and rescue and other types of disaster 
curtailment activities in response to distress call;   
•  Co-ordinating the activities of all voluntary organizations 
engaged in emergency relief operations in any part of the 
Federation;  
 • Receiving financial and technical aid from international 
organizations and nongovernmental agencies for the purpose of 
disaster management in Nigeria;   
•  Collecting emergency relief supply from local, foreign sources, 
including international and non-governmental agencies;   
•  Distributing emergency relief materials to victims of natural or 
other disasters and to assist in the rehabilitation of the victims 
where necessary;   
•  Liaising with State Emergency Management committees 
established under section 8 of this Act to assess and monitor 
where necessary, the distribution of relief materials to disaster 
victims;   
•  Processing relief assistance to such countries as may be 
determined from time to time;   
•  Liaising with the United Nations Disaster Reduction 
Organization or such other international bodies for the 
reduction of natural and other disasters;   
•  Preparing the annual budget for disaster management in 
Nigeria; and;   
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The National Youth Service Corps and Disaster Control: 
219 
 
•  Performing such other functions which in the opinion of the 
Agency are required for the purpose of achieving its objectives 
under this Act.9 
 
National Disaster Management Framework: The National Disaster 
Management Framework (NDMF) is a document developed to serve as 
a regulatory guideline for effective and efficient disaster management 
in Nigeria.10The framework has the following regulations: 
•  It framework defines measurable, flexible and adaptable 
coordinating structures, and aligns key roles and   
responsibilities of disaster management stakeholders across 
the nation.   
•  It describes specific authorities and best practices for managing 
disasters.  
•  It explains a paradigm shift from response and recovery in 
disaster management to disaster risk reduction.  
•  It offers a holistic approach to disaster management and serves 
as a legal instrument to address the need for consistency among 
multiple stakeholders.  
•  It is a coherent, transparent and inclusive policy for disaster 
management in Nigeria.   
•  All Relevant disaster management stakeholders can use this 
document as justification for organisational preparedness using 
the roles that have been assigned to them in it.   
•  The plan ensures that all sectors in humanitarian responses 
such as Camp Management, Water Sanitation and Hygiene 
(WASH), Basic Education, Food and Nutrition, Logistics, 
Telecommunication and Security are addressed.  
                                                           9“NEMA”http://nema.gov.ng/2131-2/ Accessed  on the 14/3/21 at 11:26am  10N.E. Anthony etal, “An Overview of Emergency Preparedness, Response and 
Disaster Management In Nigeria: A Study Of Nema” World Educators Forum: An 
International Journal, Vol. 11 No. 1, 2019, 285-306. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                     Suleiman Bilal Ishaq 
220 
 
•  It also serves as a link between National, Regional and 
International humanitarian actors.  The National Disaster 
Management Framework is a foundation upon which all plans, 
policies, programmes and procedures for disaster management 
is created, developed or sustained. The framework was 
developed to look at the following: Institutional Capacity, 
Coordination mechanisms, Disaster Risk Assessment, Disaster 
Risk Reduction, Disaster Prevention, Preparedness/Mitigation, 
Disaster Rehabilitation, and Facilitators11.  
 
Primary and Secondary Emergency Response Institutions in 
Nigeria 
Although these are agencies/ institutions that could respond in cases of 
emergencies, but NEMA is at the centre point of coordinating 
emergencies response disaster management in Nigeria these are: 
•  Nigeria Police Force (NPF)   
•  Federal Fire Service (FFS)   
•  Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC)   
•  Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC)   
•  Nigerian Red Cross Society (NRSC)  
•  National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA)   
•  Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA)   
•  Nigeria Maritime and safety administration (NIMASA)   
•  Nigerian Inland Water Ways (NIWA)   
•  Directorate of Road Transport Services (DRTS/VIOs)   
•  Private Construction Companies   
•  International Development Partners (NGOs)   
•  Federal/ State Ministry of Health (FMOH)   
•  Federal/ State Ministry of Environment (F/SMEnv)   
•  Federal/ State Ministry of Works (F/SMOW)   
                                                           11“NEMA@10: The Story So Far” 
https://economicconfidential.com/2009/12/nema10-thestory-so-far/ Accessed 
14/03/21. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The National Youth Service Corps and Disaster Control: 
221 
 
• Federal Roads Maintenance Agency (FERMA)   
•  Federal Ministry of Transport (FMOT)   
•  Federal Ministry of Aviation (FMOAvi)   
•  Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria (FAAN)   
•  Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS)  
•  Nigerian Customs Service (NCS)   
•  Nigerian Prison Service (NPS)   
•  Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB)   
•  Military (Army, Navy, Air Force) – Disaster Response Units 
(DRUs).12 
 
Activities of the NYSC Emergency Vanguards with the NEMA. 
Disaster management has always been misconceived to be 
responsibilities of government alone. But disasters directly affect 
people and communities. Therefore it calls for the active participation 
of Emergency Vanguards. The idea of inculcating the Emergency 
Vanguards into the trend of activities of NEMA was conceived out of the 
desire to ensure greater participation of the Vanguards in the 
management of disasters in their locations especially where they are 
actively engaged in their community service. Their activity ranges from 
training of the people in basic principles of disaster management and 
precautionary measures in curtailing spread of epidemics, natural and 
man-made emergencies.13 
The review of various documents studied revealed that NEMA over the 
years has some milestone achievements to its credit, especially in the 
area of effective and efficient coordination, cooperation and 
communication on Emergency Preparedness, Response, and Disaster 
Management even under the coordination of NEMA. It is almost 
                                                           12 N.E. Anthony etal, “An Overview of Emergency Preparedness, Response and 
Disaster Management In Nigeria: A Study Of Nema” World Educators Forum: An 
International Journal, Vol. 11 No. 1, 2019, 285-306. 13B.R. Lindsay, “Federal Emergency Management: A Brief Introduction”. Media 
Briefing by an Analyst in American National Government., 2012. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                     Suleiman Bilal Ishaq 
222 
 
impossible to quantify and qualify the numerous achievements 
recorded since the establishment of NEMA. However, information put 
out on NEMA’s press release and retrieved in 2016 highlights some 
significant landmarks from the gains of the its various structures. These 
are in line with the given mandates of the agency. As part of its 
achievement, NEMA has been able to engage volunteers and 
collaborators in carrying out its activities, among these volunteers are: 
the NYSC–Emergency Management Vanguards, which was earlier 
discussed, the Grassroots Emergency Volunteers, Executive Volunteer 
and Stakeholder Collaborators. For the purpose of this study, we shall 
focus on the NYSC-Emergency Vanguards.14 
The creation of the Emergency Management Vanguards (EMVs) by the 
National Emergency Management agency was aimed at using NYSC 
Corps members as vanguards for a standardised proactive Disaster 
Management nationwide. Disaster response activities are not solely the 
work of experts and emergency responders from government disaster 
management organisation alone, local volunteers, organisations, 
business concerns and citizens have active roles to play. The rationale 
behind this being that disasters most often happen at local 
communities and so it becomes most imperative to train young men 
and women at the grass roots to respond promptly before any national 
assistance. Reports have shown that the NYSC Emergency Vanguards 
were very useful in awareness creation, early warnings and 
information dissemination. Their activities have helped greatly in 
overcoming a number of disasters. It is desirable to expand and sustain 
these activities by involving more youth volunteer organizations.15 
 
 
 
                                                           14“NEMA” http://nema.gov.ng/2131-2/ Accessed 14/3/21.. 15“NEMA” http://nema.gov.ng/2131-2/ Accessed 14/3/21. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The National Youth Service Corps and Disaster Control: 
223 
 
The activities of the NYSC Emergency Vanguards with the National 
Emergency Management Agency include the following: 
Public enlightenment on disaster management and control 
through the emergency Vanguards: The functions of the agency 
cover creating awareness on disasters, as such, NEMA has been very 
active in mounting campaigns over periodic disasters management 
through the Emergency Vanguards disasters such as epidemics, fire 
outbreak, drought etc. Each raining season, NEMA, with the Emergency 
Vanguards embarks on the creation of awareness on the dangers of 
flood by sensitizing the people on what they need to know about the 
hazards, preventive measures and how to cope with the risk when 
prevention is impossible. In recognition of the pertinent role played by 
the Emergency Vanguards, the Agency sensitizes them too on the need 
to embark on campaigns in their respective community service areas. 
NEMA has always been on hand to support with expertise guidance and 
participation.16 
 
Disaster management and Liaison with NEMA on how to assist 
during emergencies 
The Emergency Vanguards embark on disaster management with 
NEMA for the rehabilitation of disaster victims. The agency has 
engaged in the rehabilitation of communities affected and continuously 
threatened by disasters.  This they do with the aid of Emergency 
Vanguards. A case in point is the collaboration with the Emergency 
Vanguards to rehabilitate the Agwagune community in Biasse LGA of 
Cross River State. The victims were provided with a total of 400 
houses.17 Also, the agency, in distributing relief materials to bring 
succor to victims of various disasters in the country mostly embark on 
the exercise with the Emergency Vanguards, a case in point is the aid 
                                                           16Abdullahi Musa, NYSC official, 45+, Interviewed at NYSC secretariat, 
10/03/2021 17ChibozorOkeke, ex-corps member 31+, Interviewed at U/romi, 10/3/2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                     Suleiman Bilal Ishaq 
224 
 
distribution to the victims ravaged by flooding that took place at the 
premises of Lamido Dakingari palace, Dakingari town, in Suru Local 
Government Area Kebbi State where relief materials were distributed 
to victims. During this exercise, corps members and the State 
Emergency Management Agency officials were primarily in charge of 
the distribution process in the area.18There is virtually no significant 
disaster that can be said to have overwhelmed the agency’s capability 
or resources. It is worthy of note to state that with the establishment of 
the zonal offices in 2006, the agency commenced an intense and direct 
distribution of relief materials to victims with the active collaboration 
of the states and other stakeholders like the NYSC Emergency 
Vanguards.  
 
Formation of Emergency Vanguard Club in Schools. 
The NYSC Emergency Vanguard in collaboration with NEMA carry out 
sensitization campaigns in schools and overtime have created clubs in 
various schools. These clubs hold their activities and sensitisations 
weekends. That is the clubs usually hold its meeting and activities on 
Fridays. The major purpose of creating these clubs is not only for 
secondary school students to advocate for safety and emergency 
control within the school but to also carry their campaign out to their 
immediate environment. The NYSC Emergency Vanguard and staffs of 
NEMA visit these school clubs mostly at two weeks intervals to train 
and retrain them on the essence of carrying out sensitization and in 
their schools and even occasional outings to their immediate 
environment.19 
 
 
 
 
                                                           18AbubakarIliyasu, ex-corps member, 33+, Interviewed at T/Wada, 10/3/2021.  19AbubakarIliyasu, ex-corps member, 33+, Interviewed at T/Wada, 10/3/2021.  
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The National Youth Service Corps and Disaster Control: 
225 
 
Challenges of Disaster Control 
Below are some of the challenges, constituting a bane to effective and 
efficient emergency and disaster management or control especially as it 
affects the role of NYSC as a partner agency to NEMA:   
• Organizational Pride/ego/personality: Depending on the 
personality at the helms of affair, in some cases, NEMA sidelines 
and declines the offers of Emergency Vanguards, especially in 
the area of embarking on field works.  
• Hidden agenda: Hidden Agenda displayed by some of the 
officials of the agency has also impede the progress of the 
activities of these collaborative agencies especially the 
Emergency Vanguards, as it was reported that, unlike what is 
obtainable with the NYSC road safety groups, where the corps 
members are actively engaged in the activities of the road 
safety corps, the Emergency Vanguards only participate 
passively in the core activities of NEMA. This has been 
attributed to the attitudes of the NEMA officials and their 
hidden agenda. 
• Mistrust or lack of confidence in coordinators: It has been 
noted that the issue of mistrust and lack of confidence among 
the agencies staffs especially the coordinators has greatly 
impede the success of the efforts of the Emergency Vanguards 
and NEMA 
• Inadequate top-level (leadership) support: The issue of 
support and encouragement from the agency is another factor 
that has slowed the performance and active engagement of the 
Emergency Vanguards in the activities of NEMA. The lack of 
moral and financial support (although optional) from the 
leadership of the agency also lowers the morale of the corps 
members to engage in their activities.  
• Funding: The issue of funding is another challenge, as these 
Vanguards only rely on their monthly stipends and weekly 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                     Suleiman Bilal Ishaq 
226 
 
contributions at CDS meetings in order to raise funds that will 
enable them to embark on sensitization campaigns.20 
 
Conclusion 
It is evident from the above that the NYSC Emergency Vanguards, even 
though grappling with some challenges, were able to contribute 
meaningfully in the area of disaster control and has assisted the NEMA 
in carrying out some of its major functions. This is a great achievement 
for the Vanguard and the scheme entirely. By doing this also, the 
Vanguards have helped to contribute to the development of their 
various host communities through sensitization and routine campaign 
on safety measures and emergency steps on fire outbreak. This work 
has been able to examine some of the activities of NEMA and how the 
Emergency Vanguards have been able to key into some of the 
programmes of NEMA, the work also discussed some of the challenges 
faced by Emergency Vanguards in their collaborative efforts with 
NEMA. The work concludes by noting that even though there were 
some challenges impeding the progress of these collaborative efforts 
between NEMA and the NYSC Emergency Vanguards, they still were 
able to make meaningful contributions in assisting NEMA and their 
host communities. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           20AbubakarIliyasu, ex-corps member, 33+, Interviewed at T/Wada, 10/3/2021.  
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The National Youth Service Corps and Disaster Control: 
227 
 
Bibliography 
 
NYSC, NDHQ “ABC” of Community Development Service” Abuja, 
October 2014. 
“NEMA@10: The Story So Far” 
https://economicconfidential.com/2009/12/nema10-thestory-
so-far/ Accessed 14/03/21. 
“NEMA” http://nema.gov.ng/2131-2/ Accessed 14/3/21. 
“NEMA”http://nema.gov.ng/2131-2/ Accessed on the 14/3/21 at 
11:26am   
“The United Nations Office of Disasters Risk Reduction” accessed 
8/3/2021 
https://www.unisdr.org/we/inform/publications/47804 
Abdullahi Musa, NYSC official, 45+, Interviewed at NYSC secretariat, 
10/03/2021 
Abubakar Iliyasu, ex-corps member, 33+, Interviewed at T/Wada, 
10/3/2021.  
Adedayo O, Nigeria: NYSC - Trudging On, 37 Years After. Daily 
Independent, 18 July, 2010 
Anthony N.E. etal, “An Overview of Emergency Preparedness, Response 
and Disaster Management In Nigeria: A Study Of Nema” World 
Educators Forum: An International Journal, Vol. 11 No. 1, 2019, 
285-306. 
Banji A., NYSC: End of the road? Nigerian Tribune, Sunday, July 8. 2012 
Chibozor Okeke, ex-corps member 31+, Interviewed at U/romi, 
10/3/2021. 
Enegwea G, and Umoden G.NYSC: Twenty years of National Service, 
(Abuja: Gabumo Pub, 1993). 10. 
Ingrassia P.L. et al. “Education and training initiatives for crisis 
management in the European Union: a web-based analysis of 
available programs”. Prehospital Disaster Medcine 2014; 29 
(2): 115-26. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                     Suleiman Bilal Ishaq 
228 
 
Lindsay B.R, “Federal Emergency Management: A Brief Introduction”. 
Media Briefing by an Analyst in American National Government. 
2012. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Campaign... 
229 
 
 11 1122 22    
    National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the 
Campaign for a Drug Free Society: Implications for 
Counselling 
 
 
Usman Bakari  
 
 
Introduction 
One of the primary goals of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) 
since its establishment in 1973 is to inculcate in Nigerian Youths the 
spirit of selfless service to the community, and to emphasise the spirit 
of oneness among all Nigerians, irrespective of cultural or social 
background.1 These cannot be achieved if the youths are in deep use of 
                                                           1 https://www.nysc.gov.ng/aboutscheme.html 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                              Usman Bakari  
230 
 
substance abuse. In an effort to curb this menace, the Federal 
government established the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency 
(NDLEA) in 1989 to combat the trafficking, production and 
consumption of substance abuse, which includes illicit drugs in Nigeria. 
The agency has not yet put a stop to these ugly trends. Hard drugs are 
commonly found in the country at door steps for sale and consumption. 
The availability and encourage youths to experiment with these 
substances, sometimes in schools or outside the school environments. 
The researcher has observed that, substance abuse and dependence 
have become a canker-worm that has eaten deep into the fabrics of the 
society and affects many youths in Nigeria. It has continued to create a 
threat to the effective survival of our societies, communities, nations 
especially, Nigeria. This menace is detrimental to education and the 
health of our youths.  
It is also evident that lives and properties are lost daily, simply because 
people do engage in substance abuse. Behaviours of youths as a result 
of drug addiction are also associated with various psychological, 
physiological, emotional, moral and psychosocial problems. It has also 
led to multiple unhealthy behaviours among youths in Nigeria, such as 
death from different road accidents, hired killers, pre-marital sex, 
unwanted pregnancy, alcoholism, stealing, burglary, armed robbery, 
kidnapping, raping and many more social vices. This problem has 
caused many youths especially corps members to drop out of the 
national assignment, engage in prostitution, cultism and violence, 
parents, neighbors and thereby resulting in health-related problems 
like mental disorder and sexually transmitted diseases (STDs).  
The World Health Organisation (WHO) (2016) revealed that, at least 
15.3 million persons have drug use disorders in the world2. In the same 
vein, the WHO stated that, in Nigeria, more than twenty-six thousand, 
                                                           2World Health Organization, (2016) Facts and figures from 
http://www.who.int/substance_abuse/facts/en/ 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Campaign... 
231 
 
two hundred and twenty (26,220) youths die yearly because of drugs, 
with the percentage of 1.38%3. Also, illicit drug use is injurious to 
young adults. The Nigerian National Drug Law Enforcement Agency 
(NDLEA) has stated that substance abuse is a major problem in schools, 
colleges and universities in Nigeria.4 
It is against this background that the chapter examinesthe National 
Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Campaign for a Drug Free Society: 
Implications for Counselling. 
 
National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Community 
Development Service (CDS)  
Corps members from Drug-Free Clubs do organise public 
enlightenment campaigns through lectures, debates, seminars, rallies, 
in schools, motor parks, markets and public squares in their host 
communities.5This is the heart of the objectives of the National Youths 
Service Corps to communities in Nigeria. These activities have 
impacted positively on the improvement of rural community life and 
development of their minds towards entrepreneurship. The objectives 
are to also, instill in Corps members the tradition of dignity of labour 
and productivity, to complement the activities of government at all 
levels in the stride towards national development.6Community 
Development Service (CDS) group have the mandate to enlighten 
Nigerians, especially youths on Drug Free society in collaboration with 
National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), National Agency for 
Food, Drugs Administration and Control (NAFDAC), and Standards 
Organisation of Nigeria (SAN). These CDS groups were created by NYSC 
to eradicate fake and adulterated foods and drugs, create awareness on 
                                                           3World Health Organisation, WHO, (2014). World health rankings live longer live 
better. Retrieved from http://www. worldlifeexpectancy.com/country-health-
profile/Nigeria. 4Akanbi et al. 2015) 5 https://portal.nysc.org.ng/nysc3/Programmes.aspx 6(Abdullahi 2019) 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                              Usman Bakari  
232 
 
the dangers of drug abuse, to establish drug free clubs in Schools and to 
ensure linkages with the host Communities. These laudable objectives 
cannot be achieved if the youths (corps members) are indulging in 
substance abuse, misuse or dependence. The NYSC initiated, developed 
and executed these programmes which resulted in socio-economic 
development in various communities. These were achieved because the 
Corps Members were responsible and trained in and outside the 
orientation camps.7  
 
Conceptual Clarifications: Substance Abuse 
This concept has been viewed by many researchers differently based 
on their perceptions or affiliations. A substance is a chemical that alters 
a person’s mood or behavior when it is smoked, injected, drunk, 
inhaled, snorted8, or swallowed in pill form.9 The WHO defined 
substance abuse as any harmful or hazardous use of psychoactive 
substances, including alcohol and illicit drugs (e.g. cocaine, 
amphetamine, cannabis, opium, codeine and so on). In addition, 
substance abuse is defined as a maladaptive pattern of substance use 
occurring within a 12-month period that leads to significant 
impairment or distress evidenced by one or more of the following: (a) 
failure to meet obligations, (b) use of substances in physically 
hazardous situations, (c) legal problems, or (d) interpersonal 
problems.10 
In the same vein, the Adel Wadie defines substance abuse as a 
maladaptive pattern of behavior in substance use leading to significant 
impairment or distress as it manifests by one or more of the following 
                                                           7(Abdullahi 2019) 8 Making air quickly up or down into nose. 9 Halgin, P.R & Whitbourne, S.K. (2010).Abnormal  Psychology: Published by 
McGraw-Hill, an imprint of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., 1221 Avenue of 
the Americas, New York, NY 10020.pp. 392 Sixth edition 
 10 Ibid p.2 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Campaign... 
233 
 
symptoms that occur within a 12-month period: (a) recurrent 
substance use resulting in a failure to fulfill major roles or obligations 
at work, school, or home; (b) recurrent substance use in situations in 
which it is physically hazardous (e.g. driving an automobile or 
operating a machine when impaired by substance use); (c) recurrent 
substance use relating to legal problems (e.g. arrests for substance-
related disorderly conduct); and (d) continued substance use despite 
having persistent or recurrent social or interpersonal problems 
exacerbated by the effects of the substance (e.g. argument with spouse 
about consequences of intoxication or physical fights).11 
In the context of the DSM-IV, substance abuse is a term and criterion 
for substance-related disorders. Wikipedia (2016) defined a ‘drug’ as 
any substance other than food, that when inhaled, injected, smoked, 
consumed, absorbed via a patch on the skin or dissolved under the 
tongue causes a physiological change in the body. Folawiyo (1988) 
scientifically defines drug as any substance other than food, which by 
its chemical nature, affects the structure or function of the living 
organism. To a physician, a drug is any substance used as a medicine in 
the treatment of a physical or mental disease. When used in the context 
of drug abuse, the term becomes inflammatory. The meaning of a drug 
becomes social rather than scientific.  
Also, according to Kwajafa, a drug is said to be abused when it is not 
recommended by an authorized medical practitioner, when its use is 
forbidden by law or it is socially unacceptable or when it is used 
excessively, even if it is socially accepted substance such as alcohol.12 
Olonode defined substance abuse as the excessive use of drug or use of 
illegal drugs or use of a drug when it is not prescribed by a medical 
doctor or when not medically necessary.13 In addition, the National 
                                                           11Adel Wadie (2012)  as cited in Diagnostic and statistical manual of mental 
disorders IV (DSM – IV, 2000), 12Kwajafa (1992), 13Olonode (2007) as in Baba (2017) 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                              Usman Bakari  
234 
 
Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) defined drug abuse as drug use that 
results in the physical, mental, emotional and social impairment of the 
body organs. A drug is any substance used as medicine or used to cloud 
or change perception in an attempt to blot out reality or escape from 
disturbing stimulations. 14 
 
Prevalence of Substance Abuse in Nigeria 
Substance abuse is a global public health problem that impacts 
negatively on health, family, society, educational and professional life. 
Majority of youths ignorantly depend on one form of substance or the 
other for various daily activities such as social, educational, political 
and sport/entertainment. A descriptive study was conducted among 
359 rural youths aged 15-35 years. The prevalence of drug abuse was 
10% and the most abused drug was Tramadol (52.8%). The result 
indicated that youth in the study area abuse drugs such as Tramadol.15 
Also, interviews were conducted with 406,17-year-old youth (90% of 
those eligible),forty-five percent of foster care youth reported using 
alcohol or illicit drugs within the last six months; 49% had tried drugs 
sometime during their lifetime and 35% met criteria for a substance 
use disorder. A diagnosis of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder also 
predicted increased likelihood of poly substance use and substance 
abuse disorder16. 
In addition, substance abuse among youths is fast becoming a global 
public health concern. A study assessed the prevalence and factors 
associated with substance abuse in selected public schools in 
Ogbomoso, South-West Nigeria. 249 participated in the study, the mean 
age of our respondents was 16.3±2SD; 40.0% of them had positive 
attitude to substance abuse while 21.7% had ever consumed alcoholic 
drinks. Tramadol was the most commonly abused substance apart from 
                                                           14 According to Silverman (1978) as cited in Mburza (2011) 15Gobir et al. 2016 16Vaughn et al. 2007 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Campaign... 
235 
 
alcohol; reported by 39.0% of the substance abusers. Most (35.5%) of 
the substance abusers did so believing it could enhance their academic 
performance.  
The proportion of respondents who were substance abusers was 
significantly higher among students who had not received any formal 
lectures on the subject at school compared to those who had.(47.5% vs 
29.7%;p=0.023).17On the other hand, alcohol is the most widely used 
substance abuse among youths in Nigeria. Underage drinking poses a 
serious public health problem in most colleges and despite the health 
and safety risk, consumption of alcohol is rising. Having recourse to the 
public health objective on alcohol by the WTO, is to reduce the health 
burden caused by the harmful use of alcohol, thereby saving live and 
reducing injuries, binge drinking and the consequences of alcohol 
consumption.18In the light of the foregoing, substance abuse is one of 
the most common behavioural problems among youths in Nigeria. 
 
Substance Abuse Awareness 
Corps members in their CDS that involve host communities, schools, 
and other public places embarked on enlightening the people on the 
menace of substance abuse in the country. The need for awareness and 
sensitisation in curbing substance abuse or misuse among youths in 
Nigeria cannot be over emphasized. It is evidently clear that 
researchers are of the view that, awareness should be created among 
youths for proper precautions against substance abuse. They suggested 
that enhanced awareness of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder and 
substance abuse comorbidity in high-risk, impoverished populations 
are critical to understanding the mechanisms of substance.19 
In a study of awareness of substance abuse and other health-related 
behaviors among preschool children the result shows that, only fifteen 
                                                           17Idowu et al. 2018) 18Adekeye et al., 2019 19Khoury et al. 2010 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                              Usman Bakari  
236 
 
per cent among the participants could identify the concept of drug 
consumption for non-medical purposes, depicted by a girl taking oral 
medication in a psychedelic setting.20The media is the major source of 
awareness and knowledge of substances.21 Efforts needed involving  
major stakeholders is needed to scale-up campaigns for reducing drug 
and substance abuse among school children. This can be achieved 
through raising awareness about the consequences of substance abuse; 
building capacity to strengthen coping mechanisms to stress and to 
those presenting with effects resulting from use of these substances 
and review academic curricula.22 In a study of Pattern of Substance 
Abuse among Senior Secondary School Students in a Southwestern 
Nigerian City, Majority of the respondents were males (60.7%) and 
within the 16-19 year age group (65.5%). Respondents whose parents 
are married were 81.4%, while those with divorced/separated parents 
were 10.5% and those with single parents were 8.1%. Of the 420 
interviewed respondents, 372 (88.6%) claimed awareness of existence 
of substances which can be abused. Majority of respondents had 
positive attitude towards substance abuse and 87.4% said they will do 
everything to ensure they discourage a friend from using such 
substances.23 
Studies on younger populations have demonstrated a positive 
association between awareness about substance abuse and their 
attitudes toward substances. Saudi Arabia is an Islamic country with 
strict laws regarding availability and use of addictive substances. 
Addictive behaviors tend to be concealed by the users in the Saudi 
                                                           20(Tennant, 2019) 21(Garechaba, Yohana, and Esther 2017 22(Garechaba, Yohana, and Esther 2017). Perceptions of school going adolescents 
about substance abuse in Ramotswa, Botswana: Journal of Public Health and 
Epidemiology 23 Pattern of Substance Abuse among Senior Secondary School Students in a 
Southwestern Nigerian City: International Review of Social Sciences and 
Humanities 2013 vol.4 issue 2. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Campaign... 
237 
 
community. However, some studies have revealed that drug abuse is 
more common in the Saudi community than was previously thought, 
thus it is necessary to have estimates of existing awareness regarding 
substance abuse.24 Drug and substance abuse have been on the increase 
and this has raised concern among most peers particularly in 
developing countries, where interventions towards addressing this vice 
have yielded little results. These vices have led to a number of high-risk 
behaviours such as engaging in crime, unprotected sexual intercourse, 
violence, destruction of property and poor academic performance.25 
School teachers, traditional rulers, government agents and youths are 
the stakeholders that can take the campaign for a drug free society to 
the next level or greater height.  
 
Prevention Strategies of Substance Abuse 
It is the responsibility of the Corps Members to educate themselves on 
the prevention strategies so that communities around the country can 
benefit from their services. The purpose of the National Youth Anti-
Drug Media Campaign is to promote the primary prevention and 
control of drug abuse, which means preventing drug abuse before it 
starts, and controlling it before it escalates.26Recent advances in 
psychosocial research and neurosciences have provided new avenues 
for prevention of substance abuse at the individual and community 
level. A series of risk and protective factors affecting the likelihood of 
using and abusing substances have been identified. The scope of 
prevention has been broadened, allowing the prescription of different 
interventions for individuals according to their varying degrees of 
vulnerability to substance experimentation, continuous use and 
dependence. An increased awareness of comorbidity between mental 
and substance use disorders provides an arena for prevention within 
psychiatry and related disciplines. The integration of prevention within 
                                                           24(Siddiqui and Salim, 2016) 25Kiriru 2018) 26 https://www.ojp.gov/pdffiles1/ondcp/171694.pdf 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                              Usman Bakari  
238 
 
healthy life style policies and programs, including interventions at the 
school, family and community levels, is more likely to produce the 
desired outcomes27  
 
Substances Commonly Abused by Youths in Nigeria 
In Nigeria, the National Drug and Law Enforcement Agency 
(NDLEA)has identified six major classes of substances most frequently 
and commonly abused in Nigeria as follows: Stimulants, Sedatives, 
Narcotics, Hallucinogens, tranquilizers and miscellaneous. Also, the 
most common types of abused drugs according to NAFDAC (2000) as 
cited by28) are categorized as follows: - 
1. Stimulants: These are substances that directly act and 
stimulate the central nervous system. Users at the initial stage 
experience pleasant effects such as energy increase. The major 
source of these comes from caffeine substance.  
2. Hallucinogens’; these are drugs that alter the sensory 
processing unit in the brain. Thus, producing distorted 
perception, feeling of anxiety and euphoria, sadness and inner 
joy, they normally come from marijuana, LSD etc.  
3. Narcotics: These drugs relive pains, induce sleeping and they 
are addictive. They are found in heroin, codeine, opium etc.  
4. Sedatives: These drugs are among the most widely used and 
abused. This is largely due to the belief that they relieve stress 
and anxiety, and some of them induce sleep, ease tension, cause 
relaxation or help users to forget their problems. They are 
sourced from valium, alcohol, promotazine, chloroform.  
5. Tranquilizers: They are believed to produce calmness without 
bringing drowsiness; they are chiefly derived from Librium, 
Valium etc.  
                                                           27Medina-Mora 2005) 28Haladu (2003 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Campaign... 
239 
 
According to the National Training Manual on Adolescent Reproductive 
Health, [ARH] (2001) alcohol, coffee, tea, kola nuts, cannabis (Indians 
Hemp), stimulants (dexamphetamine), anxiety relieving drugs (Valium, 
Lexotan), narcotics (heroin), cocaine, solvents and hallucinogens are 
some of the drugs commonly abused in Nigeria. The two commonest 
drugs abused by adolescents are alcohol and tobacco (cigarette). These 
are also known as the ‘gateway’ drugs. The most commonly used 
substances were codeine (85%), alcohol (75%), cannabis (70%), 
tramadol (65%), rohypnol (65%), and tobacco (50%)29 . 
 
DRUG GROUP EFFECTS DANGER 
STIMULANTS 
• Cocaine (crack, gbana) 
• Caffeine (coffee) 
• Nicotine/ Tobacco 
(cigarette, snuff) 
• Amphetamines(Chines
e Capsule “CC”). 
Can cause 
increase in energy 
and activity. 
Can suppress 
hunger. 
Produces a state 
of excitement, 
feeling good or a 
state of euphoria 
(the intensity of 
the feeling 
depends on type 
of drug e.g., 
cocaine is 
stronger than 
caffeine in coffee). 
Sleeplessness/Anxiet
y 
Irregular heartbeat, 
Possible heart 
failure. Over 
excitement or 
hypomania. 
Hallucinations, other 
forms of mental 
disorders 
(amphetamine and 
cocaine can cause 
Psychosis). 
Recklessness. 
Tolerance and 
psychological 
dependence develop 
quickly. 
 
                                                           29Adekeye et al. 2017) 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                              Usman Bakari  
240 
 
DEPRESSANT 
• Alcohol 
(beer,wine,ogogor
o 
Opia-pia, 
ogura,burukutu,ak
petesh). 
• Benzodiazepines 
(Valium, Lexotan). 
• Barbiturates 
Make a person 
“feel good” at the 
beginning. Can 
cause depressive 
illness. Slows 
down body 
functions. Cause 
sleep or 
Drowsiness. Lead 
to fall in blood 
pressure, slowing 
of the heart and 
respiratory rate. 
Unconsciousness 
and even death. 
Drowsiness 
Uncoordinated 
behaviour and 
actions. 
Difficulty in 
operating machines, 
driving a car, bus, 
trailer, truck, under 
the influence of 
alcohol. 
Unconsciousness 
death.  
MARIJUANA 
• Indian hemp 
(cannabis, weed, 
Igbo, ganja, wee-
wee, pot, stone, 
hashish) 
Alters the way 
people see, hear, 
and feel. 
Can cause fear or 
change fear 
making the user 
bold and more 
daring. 
Can cause dryness 
of mouth and 
throat. 
Disorientation. 
Confusion.  
Problem of co-
ordination. 
Long term use can 
decrease libido, and 
effect sperm 
production. 
Like cigarette 
smoking, it can cause 
damage to the 
respiratory system 
especially the lungs. 
Can change 
motivation. 
Precipitates mental 
illness  
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Campaign... 
241 
 
INHALANTS 
• Glue (solutions for 
patching shoes) 
• Paint thinner 
• Nail-polish 
remover 
• Aerosols (hair 
spray) 
• Petrol 
• Gutter  
Inhaled fumes can 
cause: 
-Excitation 
-Disinhibition 
-Euphoria 
Dizziness Inco-
ordination/Unsteady 
gait 
Slurred speech 
Lethargy 
Tremor 
Generalized muscle 
weakness 
Blurred vision 
Euphoria 
Stupor or coma 
 
NACORTICS 
• Heroin 
• Morphine 
• Codeine 
Can induce 
nausea, 
drowsiness and 
changes in mood 
Nausea or Vomiting  
Muscles aches 
Watering of eyes and 
running of noses 
Sweating  
Chills 
Diarrhea 
Yawning 
Fever 
Insomnia 
 
Fig 12.1: A Table Showing Various Drug Groups, Their effects and 
Dangers its Posses to Human Health. 
Source: Authors Compilation 
 
Campaign Strategies for a Drug Free Society 
The role of NYSC, the parents, mass media, community, home leaders, 
schools and religious centres in reducing substance abuse cannot be 
overemphasised. They play vital roles in curbing the menace of 
substance abuse in the country. The campaign should focus on primary 
prevention for three key reasons.  
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                              Usman Bakari  
242 
 
a. First, primary prevention targets the underlying causes of drug 
use, and, therefore, has the greatest potential to reduce the 
scope of the problem over the long term. 
b. Second, over time a primary prevention campaign will lessen 
the need for drug treatment services, which are in critically 
short supply.  
c. And third, a media campaign has greater potential to affirm and 
reinforce the anti-drug attitudes of youth who are not involved 
in drug use than to persuade experienced drug users to change 
their behaviour30. 
The National Youth Service Corps through it Drug Free CDS group 
embarks on series of campaigns all over the country on the effect of 
drug abuse. As noted by NYSC Drug free group Katsina when they 
staged a walk against the abuse of drugs: 
“We enlightened the general public on the dangers of 
drugs abuse and the different form of threats these 
drugs pose to health. We also staged a walk between 
kofar kwaya Round-about and the popular Narto Car 
Park, where our members addressed both the 
transporters and passengers on the on the dangers of 
the use of illicit drugs”31 
Mental health and substance use disorders among children, youth, and 
young adults are major threats to the health and well-being of younger 
populations which often carry over into adulthood. The costs of 
treatment for mental health and addictive disorders, which create an 
enormous burden on the affected individuals, their families, and 
society, have stimulated increasing interest in prevention practices that 
                                                           30 The National Youth Anti-Dr Anti-Drug Media C Ug Media Campaign 
Communication Strategy Statement: 
https://www.ojp.gov/pdffiles1/ondcp/171694.pdf 31 NYSC Drug Free Katsina State, Towards a Drug Free Nigeria Facebook post, 
30th August 2019. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Campaign... 
243 
 
can impede the onset or reduce the severity of the disorders. 
Prevention practices have emerged in a variety of settings, including 
programs for selected at-risk populations (such as children and youth 
in the child welfare system), school-based interventions, interventions 
in primary care settings, and community services designed to address a 
broad array of mental health needs and populations. Preventing 
mental, emotional, and behavioral disorders among young people, 
reducing risks for mental disorders, focusing special attention on the 
research base and program experience with younger populations that 
have emerged since that time. Researchers, such as those involved in 
prevention science, mental health, education, substance abuse, juvenile 
justice, health, child and youth development, as well as policy makers 
involved in state and local mental health, substance abuse, welfare, 
education, and justice will depend on this updated information on the 
status of research and suggested directions for the field of mental 
health and prevention of disorders32 
 
Treatment for Substance Abuse Using Counselling 
Hope is a vital component of psychological healing and plays a critical 
role in counselling (Koehn, O’Neill, and Sherry 2012). Substance abuse 
treatment involves four distinct phases:  prevention, detoxification, 
rehabilitation and relapse prevention33. In addition, the four major 
categories of drug treatment studied by Drug Abuse Treatment 
Outcome Study (DATOS) included outpatient methadone programs, 
long-term residential programmes, outpatient drug-free programs, and 
short-term inpatient programs. In outpatient methadone programs, 
clients are given methadone to reduce cravings for heroin and block its 
effects. They also receive counselling and vocational skills development 
to help them rebuild their lives. In long-term residential programs, 
clients are given continual drug-free treatment in a residential 
                                                           32O’Connell, Boat, and Warner, 2009. 33 Williams & Wilkins: Mass Publishing Egypt(1997). Psychiatry. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                              Usman Bakari  
244 
 
community they share with counsellors and fellow recovering addicts 
(sometimes called a therapeutic community). In outpatient drug-free 
programs, a wide range of psychosocial approaches are used, including 
12-step programs. In short-term inpatient programs, clients are 
stabilized medically and then are encouraged to remain abstinent 
through taking steps to change their lifestyle. The methods used in 
these treatment formats rely on one or more components of biological 
treatment combined with psychotherapy and efforts to provide clients 
with social supports and improvements in their occupational and 
family functioning.34 
The efficacy of Psychological techniques, especially Cognitive 
Behavioural Therapy (CBT) in managing or changing learned 
behaviours like attitude, anxiety, phobia, depression, study habits and 
substance abuse cannot be over exaggerated.35Counselling gives 
curative measures in reducing tendencies, dependencies and abuse of 
substance among all and sundry. As an expert in counselling industry, 
proper use of behavioural, cognitive and affective techniques in 
changing or reducing the menace of substance abuse is of paramount 
significance. Integrating HIV prevention into substance abuse 
counselling is recommended to ameliorate the health outcomes of men 
who have sex with others.36Adolescents need effective lifestyle 
counselling precisely because health problems are so common. Good-
quality lifestyle counselling can prevent the problems from becoming 
                                                           34 Halgin, P.R & Whitbourne, S.K. (2010).Abnormal  Psychology: Published by 
McGraw-Hill, an imprint of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., 1221 Avenue of 
the Americas, New York, NY 10020.pp. 422 Sixth edition 
35 Bakari, U. (2018). Efficacy of a Cognitive Behavioural Programme on Changing 
Positive Attitudes Towards Substance among Secondary School Students in Jalingo 
Metropolis, Taraba state Nigeria. A Ph.D. theses submitted to the department of 
psychology, University of Bahri, Sudan. 36(Spector and Pinto 2011) 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Campaign... 
245 
 
worse and decrease the costs of health care. Nurse practitioners in 
schools are well positioned to promote adolescent health37 .  
A study revealed that, most adolescents (84%) reported that the 
counselling resources related to school-based health care are quite 
good for their lives. Most of them reported that nutrition (70%) and 
physical activity (63%) related to lifestyle counselling are sufficient. 
Approximately half of adolescents (51%) considered the counselling 
related to substance abuse as being sufficient. Most (80%) felt that the 
level of interaction during counselling is good. Overall, the majority of 
adolescents reported that goal-oriented lifestyle counselling (67%) and 
adolescent-centred counselling (69%) are good38Students(youths) 
experience various challenges during their studies, such as personal 
problems, academic difficulties and mental health problems. 
Counselling centres/units play a valuable role in providing support 
systems for youths in need.39 Traditional psychotherapeutic methods 
also play an important role in recovery for many people with substance 
related disorders. For some people, inpatient care is necessary at least 
for a brief duration while they proceed through a process of 
detoxification; during a period lasting from a few weeks to several 
months of residential care, some individuals stabilize physically and 
psychologically by participating in a multimodal program. For many 
people, outpatient treatment helps them attain their goals, although 
many psychotherapists strongly recommend that recovering clients 
also participate in a 12-step program in which they have access to 
ongoing support on a regular and consistent basis. 
The NYSC also embark on a counselling in schools, mostly, counselling 
took place on the effects of drug abuse as this has helped to a great 
                                                           37Myllymäki, Ruotsalainen, and Kääriäinen 2017) 38(Myllymäki, Ruotsalainen, and Kääriäinen 2017). Adolescents’ evaluations of the 
quality of lifestyle counselling in school-based health care: Scandinavian Journal of 
Caring Sciences. 39Cilliears, Pretorius, and Van der Westhuizen 2011 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                              Usman Bakari  
246 
 
measure in curbing the menace of drug abuse among the children and 
even youths. Also, the NYSC under the NYSC drug free group have 
created various anti-drug clubs in secondary schools which serves as a 
form of sensitization against the misuse of drugs. Furthermore, the 
NYSC has visited various rehabilitation centers, engaging in counselling 
of the already redeemed inmates on the effects of going back into active 
drugs taking and misuse and its effect on their health. 
 
Concluding Remarks  
A Drug is any substance other than food, that when inhaled, injected, 
smoked, consumed, absorbed via a patch on the skin or dissolved under 
the tongue causes a physiological change in the body. Substance abuse 
is categorised into stimulants, inhalants, depressants and 
hallucinogens. Signs of substance abuse include physical, social, 
psychological and behavioural signs. Youths abuse substances because 
of ignorance, inquisitiveness, and experiments and to feel comfortable. 
Counselling techniques can change psychotropic behaviours of 
substance abusers. Counsellors, psychologists, social workers should 
intensify efforts by organising seminars, workshops, symposia and 
conferences for substance abusers, parents so that the menace of 
substance abuse can be minimized drastically. 
 
Recommendations  
1. New Counselling centres should be created by the Director 
General in various NYSC Orientation camps in the country for 
proper youths’ awareness, prevention and rehabilitation of 
substance abusers. 
2. Experts (counsellor, psychiatrists and social workers) should 
be deployed to those centres to manage youths with substance 
abuse. 
3. Retreat, seminars, workshops, symposia and public lectures 
should be done consistently for youths’ proper adjustment to 
normal life. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Campaign... 
247 
 
References 
 
Abdullahi, Muhammad. 2019. “Issues In Community Development 
Service Scheme Of Nigeria ’ S National Youth Service Corps And Its 
Relevance To Community National Youth Service Corps And Its 
Relevance To Community,” no. December 2016. 
Adekeye, Olujide A., Emmanuel O. Amoo, Sussan O. Adeusi, Olufunke O. 
Chenube, Frederick Ahmadu, and Joseph Idoko. 2019. “Dataset on 
Perception of Public College Students on Underage Drinking in 
Nigeria.” Data in Brief 24. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dib.2019.103930. 
Adekeye, Olujide A., Jonathan A. Odukoya, Olufunke Chenube, David O. 
Igbokwe, Angie Igbinoba, and Elizabeth I. Olowookere. 2017. 
“Subjective Experiences and Meaning Associated with Drug Use 
and Addiction in Nigeria: A Mixed Method Approach.” Global 
Journal of Health Science 9 (8). 
https://doi.org/10.5539/gjhs.v9n8p57. 
Akanbi, Muritala Ishola, Godwin Augustina, Anyio Bahago Theophilus, 
Muhammad Muritala, and Ajiboye Stephen Ajiboye. 2015. “Impact 
of Substance Abuse on Academic Performance among Adolescent 
Students of Colleges of Education in Kwara State, Nigeria.” Journal 
of Education and Practice 6 (28). 
Atoyebi, Oladele A, and Olufunmilayo E Atoyebi. 2013. “Pattern of 
Substance Abuse among Senior Secondary School Students in a 
Southwestern Nigerian City.” International Review of Social 
Sciences and Humanities 4 (2). 
Chaudhury, Suprakash, Sai Krishna Tikka, and Ajay Kumar Bakhla. 
2016. “Impact of Substance Use Disorder on Presentation of 
Schizophrenia.” Dual Diagnosis Open Access 01 (02). 
https://doi.org/10.21767/2472-5048.100007. 
Cilliears, CD, K Pretorius, and LR Van der Westhuizen. 2011. “A 
National Benchmarking Survey of Student Counselling 
Centres/Units in South Africa.” South African Journal of Higher 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                              Usman Bakari  
248 
 
Education 24 (1). https://doi.org/10.4314/sajhe.v24i1.63428. 
Garechaba, Gotsang, Mashalla Yohana, and Seloilwe Esther. 2017. 
“Perceptions of School Going Adolescents about Substance Abuse 
in Ramotswa, Botswana.” Journal of Public Health and 
Epidemiology 9 (6). https://doi.org/10.5897/jphe2017.0930. 
Gobir, A.A, M. N. Sambo, S. S. Bashir, A. A. Olorukoba, O.E Ezeh, M. Bello, 
B. Usman, et al. 2016. Prevalence And Determinants Of Drug 
Abuse Among Youths In A Rural Community In North Western 
Nigeria. Tropical Journal of Health Sciences. Vol. 24. 
Haig, Lindsay. 2018. “A Phenomenological Exploration of Female 
Participants’ Experiences of Mindfulness-Based Relapse 
Prevention (MBRB).” Dissertation Abstracts International: Section 
B: The Sciences and Engineering. 
Idowu, Ajibola, Ayodele Olatayo Aremu, Aderonke Olumide, and 
Ayotunde Olumuyiwa Ogunlaja. 2018. “Substance Abuse among 
Students in Selected Secondary Schools of an Urban Community of 
Oyo-State, South West Nigeria: Implication for Policy Action.” 
African Health Sciences 18 (3). 
https://doi.org/10.4314/ahs.v18i3.36. 
Khoury, Lamya, Yilang L. Tang, Bekh Bradley, Joe F. Cubells, and Kerry J. 
Ressler. 2010. “Substance Use, Childhood Traumatic Experience, 
and Posttraumatic Stress Disorder in an Urban Civilian 
Population.” Depression and Anxiety 27 (12). 
https://doi.org/10.1002/da.20751. 
Kiriru, Ann. 2018. “Effect of Awareness on Substance Abuse among 
University Students in a Selected Private University in Kenya.” 
African Research Journal of Education and Social Sciences 5 (2). 
Koehn, Corinne, Linda O’Neill, and John Sherry. 2012. “Hope-Focused 
Interventions in Substance Abuse Counselling.” International 
Journal of Mental Health and Addiction 10 (3). 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11469-011-9360-3. 
Mallin, Robert. 2003. “Therapist’s Guide to Substance Abuse 
Intervention.” The Primary Care Companion to The Journal of 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Campaign... 
249 
 
Clinical Psychiatry 05 (06). 
https://doi.org/10.4088/pcc.v05n0609. 
Medina-Mora, María Elena. 2005. “Prevention of Substance Abuse: A 
Brief Overview.” World Psychiatry : Official Journal of the World 
Psychiatric Association (WPA) 4 (1). 
Mehdizadeh Zare Anari, A., and F. Hajhoseini. 2012. “P-67 - The 
Relation between Emotional Intelligence and Instable Personality 
in Substance Abusers.” European Psychiatry 27. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/s0924-9338(12)74234-7. 
Myllymäki, Laura, Heidi Ruotsalainen, and Maria Kääriäinen. 2017. 
“Adolescents’ Evaluations of the Quality of Lifestyle Counselling in 
School-Based Health Care.” Scandinavian Journal of Caring 
Sciences 31 (4). https://doi.org/10.1111/scs.12420. 
O’Connell, Mary Ellen, Thomas Boat, and Kenneth E. Warner. 2009. 
Preventing Mental, Emotional, and Behavioral Disorders among 
Young People: Progress and Possibilities. Preventing Mental, 
Emotional, and Behavioral Disorders Among Young People: 
Progress and Possibilities. https://doi.org/10.17226/12480. 
Perpetua Ngosoo, Chia,. 2016. “Drug Abuse and Health of the Nigerian 
Youth: A Call to ‘Listen First.’” Science Journal of Public Health 4 
(5). https://doi.org/10.11648/j.sjph.s.2016040501.12. 
Siddiqui, Aesha, and Abdulrhman Salim. 2016. “Awareness of Substance 
Use and Its Associated Factors in Young Saudi Students.” Journal 
of Medical and Allied Sciences 6 (2). 
https://doi.org/10.5455/jmas.217010. 
Spaid, Wanda M., and Stuart P. Squires. 2006. “Changing Social Work 
Students’ Attitudes toward Substance Abusers through the Use of 
an Abstinence Assignment: A Pilot Study.” Journal of Teaching in 
the Addictions 4 (2). https://doi.org/10.1300/J188v04n02_03. 
Spector, Anya Y., and Rogério M. Pinto. 2011. “Let’s Talk about Sex: 
Helping Substance Abuse Counsellors Address HIV Prevention 
with Men Who Have Sex with Men.” Culture, Health and Sexuality 
13 (4). https://doi.org/10.1080/13691058.2010.550322. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                                              Usman Bakari  
250 
 
Tennant, Forest S. 2019. “Awareness of Substance Abuse and Other 
Health-Related Behaviors among Preschool Children.” In Drug 
Abuse: Foundation for a Psychosocial Approach. 
https://doi.org/10.4324/9781315224695-14. 
Vaughn, Michael G., Marcia T. Ollie, J. Curtis McMillen, Lionel Scott, and 
Michelle Munson. 2007. “Substance Use and Abuse among Older 
Youth in Foster Care.” Addictive Behaviors. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.addbeh.2006.12.012. 
Weiten, W. (2005). Concept charts for study and review for psychology: 
Themes and Variations. Six Edition: Breefer version. 
Wikipedia. (2016). Drug. Retrieved from  https://en.wikipedia.  
org/wiki /Drug 
WHO (2016) Facts and figures Retrieved 12/5/2016 from 
http://www.who.int/substance_abuse/facts/en/ 
WHO (2014). World health rankings live longer live better. Retrieved 
4/5/ 2016 from http://www. 
worldlifeexpectancy.com/country-health-profile/Nigeria. 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Scheme and Afforestation... 
251 
 
 11 1133 33    
    The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Scheme and 
Afforestation Campaign Programme in Nigeria 
 
 
Lawrence Okechukwu Udeagbala 
and 
Solomon Ayegba Usman 
 
 
Introduction 
Globally speaking, the importance of environment for human existence 
including other animals, trees, aquatic lives among other habitats in the 
ecosystem cannot be over-emphasised. Indeed, continuation of life of 
humans and other living organisms within the environment is 
influenced largely by the maintenance and sustenance of the 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                              L. O. Udeagbala and S. A. Usman 
252 
 
environment. Hence, Platt, Billings, Gates, Olmsted, Shanks and Tester1 
assert, “a living organism is a product of its environment and its genetic 
code.” It’s the growing realisation of this that make several countries of 
the world as well as international and regional organisations to make 
environmental sustainability and protection of ecosystem policy 
priority area. For example, recognising the need to preserve the 
environment from catastrophic destruction of human civilisation and 
natural resources, the first ever world conference on the environment, 
the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment, was held in 
Stockholm, Sweden, from June 5 – 16, 19722 where the environment 
was the major issue discussed. The participants adopted series of 
principles for sound management of the environment including the 
Stockholm Declaration and Action Plan for the Human Environment 
and several other resolutions. The twenty-six (26) principles of the 
Stockholm Declaration placed environmental issues at the forefront of 
international concerns and marked the start of a dialogue between the 
industrialised and developing countries on the link between economic 
growth, the pollution of the air, water, and oceans and the well-being of 
people around the world. On the other hand, The Action Plan was 
grouped into three main categories of Global Environmental 
Assessment Program, the Environmental management activities and 
International measures to support assessment and management 
activities carried out at the national and international levels. The 
Stockholm Conference led to the creation of the United Nations 
Environment Programme (UNEP) in 1972 with the headquarters in 
Nairobi, Kenya. Subsequent UN conferences on the environment 
include the popular Rio Earth Summit held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, 3-
                                                           1 Robert B. Platt, W. D. Billings, David M. Gates, Charles E. Olmsted, Royal E. 
Shanks and John R. Tester, “The Importance of Environment to Life” BioScience 
Vol. 14, No.7  (1964): 25, accessed on March 16, 2021, 
https://doi.org/10.2307/1293232. 2 UN, “Conferences: Environment and Sustainable Development”, accessed on 
March 16, 2021, https://www.un.org/en/conferences/environment/stockholm1972 
and https://undocs.org/en/A/CONF.48/INF.5/rev.1.. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Scheme and Afforestation... 
253 
 
14 June 1992; the 19th Special Session of the UN General Assembly to 
Review and Appraise the Implementation of Agenda 21, New York, 23-
27 June 1997; and the Millennium Summit, New York, 6-8 September 
2000 (with the Millennium Development Goals MDGs outcome). Others 
are Johannesburg 2002, New York 2005; New York 2010; Rio 2012; 
New York 2013 and New York 2015. 
The mission of the UNEP is to among others, “provide leadership and 
encourage partnership in caring for the environment by inspiring, 
informing, and enabling nations and peoples to improve their quality of 
life without compromising that of future generations.”3In addition to 
this, the United Nations General Assembly in its Resolution 38/161 on 
December 19, 1983, welcomed the establishment of a special 
commission.4 The commission was mandated to make report available 
on environment and the global challenges up to year 2000 and beyond, 
including proposed strategies for sustainable development. Heeding 
the urgent call, the UN through its then Secretary General, Javier Perez 
de Cuellar, set up World Commission on Environment and 
Development (WCED) (now known as the Brundtland Commission) 
headed by Gro Harlem Brundtland, a former Prime Minister of Norway. 
Writing the Chairman’s Foreword to the Report of the World 
Commission on Environment and Development: Our Common Future 
on March 20, 1987, Gro Harlem Brundtland5  painted the graphic 
condition of degraded environment and the threats it posed to human 
survival and sustainability of the ecosystem.  According to her: 
The present decade has been marked by a retreat from 
social concerns. Scientists bring to our attention urgent 
                                                           3 UNEP, “Why does UN Environment Programme matters?”. Available at 
https://www.unep.org/about-un-environment/why-does-un-environment-matter. 
Accessed on 16 March 2021. 4Available at https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/milestones/wced. Accessed on 
16 March 2021. 5 Available at https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/content/documents/5987our-
common-future.pdf. Accessed on 16 March 2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                              L. O. Udeagbala and S. A. Usman 
254 
 
but complex problems bearing on our very survival: a 
warming globe, threats to the Earth's ozone layer, 
deserts consuming agricultural land. We respond by 
demanding more details, and by assigning the 
problems to institutions ill-equipped to cope with 
them. Environmental degradation, first seen as mainly 
a problem of the rich nations and a side effect of 
industrial wealth, has become a survival issue for 
developing nations. It is part of the downward spiral of 
linked ecological and economic decline in which many 
of the poorest nations are trapped. Despite official hope 
expressed on all sides, no trends identifiable today, no 
programmes or policies, offer any real hope of 
narrowing the growing gap between rich and poor 
nations. And as part of our “development”, we have 
amassed weapons arsenals capable of diverting the 
paths that evolution has followed for millions of years 
and of creating a planet our ancestors would not 
recognise6. 
 
Since then, there have been series of concrete attempts geared towards 
preserving the environment to achieve sustainable development in 
terms of “development that meets the needs of the present without 
compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own 
needs”7.For example, the UN General Assembly of September 6-8, 2000, 
in New York, United States, dubbed, “The Millennium Summit” 
produced the global affirmative and action plan called the Millennium 
                                                           6Ibid. 7See The World Commission on Environment and Development (WCED’s) 1987 
Brundtland Report ´Our Common Future` available at 
https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/content/documents/5987our-common-
future.pdf. Accessed on 16 March 2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Scheme and Afforestation... 
255 
 
Development Goals (MDGs). The eight and last goal of the MDGs is 
tagged: “Ensure environmental sustainability”. 
While addressing the African Union Summit in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, 
on February 9, 2020, the UN Secretary-General, António Guterres, on 
the climate change crisis said, “Africa was the least responsible for 
accelerated global warming, but among the first and worst to suffer”8. 
This view is corroborated by Sahara and Sahel Observatory (OSS) 
report, which says, “Climate change is mainly caused by the 
concentration of greenhouse gases (GHG) and African countries only 
contribute to this in a very slight way”9. 
In his submission, Akin Mabogunje10 believes that Sub-Saharan Africa 
suffers the worst form of environmental problems, including 
deforestation, soil erosion, desertification, wetland degradation, and 
insect infestation. Efforts to deal with these problems, however, have 
been handicapped by a real failure to understand their nature and 
possible remedies. While admitting that the people of this region are 
highly irresponsible toward the environment and looks to the 
international community to save them from themselves, he contends 
that the international community has not shown any genuine concern 
for it until recently. To him therefore, it is clear that the environmental 
challenges in sub-Saharan Africa are more complex than the simple 
model linking environmental degradation to population growth and 
inappropriate macroeconomic policies indicates. Because of this 
                                                           8UN News (2020, February 9). AU Summit: Guterres calls for ‘collective, 
comprehensive, coordinated’ response to challenges facing Africa. Available at 
https://news.un.org/en/story/2020/02/1057011. Accessed on 16 March 2021. 9 See for instance, Sahara and Sahel Observatory (OSS), Climate Change 
Adaptation and the Fight Against Desertification: Introductory Note No. 1, 2 nd  
Edition, Tunis, 2007, p. 9. Available at http://www.fao.org/3/ax357e/ax357e.pdf. 
Accessed on 16 March 2021. 10Akin L . Mabogunje, The Environmental Challenges in Sub Saharan Africa. In: 
Environment, 37(4), May 1995, p. 4. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                              L. O. Udeagbala and S. A. Usman 
256 
 
complexity, no easy solutions are available. But whatever policies are 
adopted, to succeed they must increase peoples' interest in protecting 
the environment by involving them directly in the process; reduce the 
incidence of poverty to reduce the pressure on natural resources; and 
show people how a high level of resource use can go hand-in-hand with 
the maintenance of environmental quality. 
Today, analysts11 believed that welfare and development remain 
pressing global problems relating to human survival, they nonetheless 
argue Nigeria has the world’s highest annual deforestation rate of 
primary forest at 55.7%. The country is one of the two largest losers of 
annual natural forests in Africa.12At 11.1%, Nigeria’s annual 
deforestation rate of natural forest is the highest in the world and puts 
it on the pace to lose virtually all its primary forest within few years. It 
is a major problem occurring in many parts of the country and the most 
adversely affected region is the less endowed Northern part of the 
country13.  
Therefore, it is in this context that the chapter examines the 
afforestation campaign programme in Nigeria by the National Youth 
Service Corps (NYSC) Scheme. To achieve this, the chapter is divided 
into six main sections in addition to the introduction. After the 
introductory part, the second section focuses on the clarification of 
concepts that are central to the discussion. While part three appraises 
various activities and factors that lead to deforestation in Nigeria, the 
                                                           11 Abdullahi, A., Girei, A. A., Usman, I. S., and Abubakar, M. G., Assessment of 
Adaptation Strategies for Deforestation and Climate Change: Implication for 
Agricultural Extension System in Nigeria. In: International Journal of Innovative 
Agriculture & Biology Research, 5(2), 2017, pp. 11 –17. 12 See for instance, Azare, I. M.; Abdullahi M. S.; Adebayo, A. A.; Dantata, I. J.; 
and Duala, T., Deforestation, Desert Encroachment, Climate Change and 
Agricultural Production in the Sudano-Sahelian Region of Nigeria. In: Journal of 
Applied Science and Environmental Management, 24(1) , 2020 (January), pp. 127 – 
132. 13 See Abdullahi, A. et al, op cit. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Scheme and Afforestation... 
257 
 
fourth section examines the consequences of deforestation and efforts 
geared towards afforestation. The fifth subdivision interrogates the 
role of the NYSC in the afforestation exercise while the sixth concludes. 
I. Interrogation and Conceptualization of Concepts 
Here in this chapter, we interrogate concepts that are considered 
imperative to our discussion as well as understanding of the discourse. 
Hence, key terms like desertification and deforestation, afforestation, 
reforestation and afforestation campaign are subjected to critical yet in 
exhaustive examination.  
/square4 Desertification and Deforestation:According toGlantz and 
Orlovsky desertification is a complex phenomenon requiring the 
expertise of researchers in such disciplines as climatology, soil science, 
meteorology, hydrology, range science, agronomy, veterinary medicine, 
as well as geography, political science, economics and anthropology.14 
Researchers in these and other disciplines, as well as from many 
national and bureaucratic (institutional) perspectives, have defined it 
in many different ways by each emphasizing different aspects of the 
phenomenon. Thus, it is safe to say that the desert had once upon a 
time been a better place with life and vegetation, grasses and trees, 
different species of animals and human beings with perhaps, scenic and 
natural ambience, then something untoward happened, and the place 
became a wasteland and deserted. Usually, desertification is caused by 
long hot dry season with short rainy season.15 From this, even though 
inventory by Michael H. Glantzindicates that there are over hundred 
definitions of desertification, it can be easily discerned what it is 
                                                           14 Ibid  15Nasiru Idris Medugu, M. Rafee Majid, Foziah Johar and I.D. Choji “The role of 
afforestation programme in combating desertification in Nigeria”, International 
Journal of Climate Change Strategies and Management, Vol. 2, No. 1 ,  (2010), pp. 
35-47.  
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                              L. O. Udeagbala and S. A. Usman 
258 
 
without much emphasis.16To Mainguet, as commonly used, the word 
desertification means an environmental crisis, which produces desert-
like conditions in any ecosystem.17 
While some authors consider desertification to be a process of change, 
others perceive it as the end result of a process of change. This 
distinction in the view of Glantz and Orlovsky18 underlies one of the 
main disagreements about what constitutes desertification. 
Notwithstanding, desertification as a process to them has generally 
been viewed as a series of incremental and sometimes step-wise, 
changes in biological productivity in arid, semi-arid, and sub-humid 
ecosystems. It can encompass such changes as a decline in yield of the 
same crop or, more drastically, the replacement of one vegetative 
species by another maybe equally productive or equally useful, or even 
a decrease in the density of the existing vegetative cover. As event, 
desertification is the creation of desert-like conditions (where perhaps 
none had existed in the recent past) as the end result of a process of 
change. Concisely, desertification is the persistent degradation of 
dryland ecosystems by variations in climate and human activities. 
On the other hand, deforestation is similar to if not the same with 
desertification. According to van Kooten and Bulte19, deforestation is 
the conversion of forest to an alternative permanent non-forested land 
use such as agriculture, grazing or urban development. However, the 
                                                           16 Michael H. Glantz (Ed.). Desertification: Environmental Degradatian in and 
around Arid Lands (Boulder: Westview Press, 1977). See also, Michael H Glantz. 
and N. S. Orlovsky, “Desertification: A Review of the Concept”, Desertification 
Control Bulletin, 9 (Kenya, Nairobi: UNEP, 1983), 15 – 22. 
http://www.ciesin.org/docs/002-479/002-479.html.  17 See Monique Mainguet, Desertification: Natural Background and Human 
Mismanagement. 18 Michael H Glantz. and N. S. Orlovsky, “Desertification: A Review of the 
Concept”. 19 Van G. C. Kooten and, E. H.  Bulte, The Economics of Nature: Managing 
Biological Assets (Blackwells, 2000). 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Scheme and Afforestation... 
259 
 
exception, according to Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), is 
that a plantation of trees established primarily for timber production is 
not to be considered as forest and therefore does not classify natural 
forest conversion to plantation as deforestation even though it still 
records it as a loss of natural forests20. Some studies21 carried out 
revealed that while deforestation is now no longer significant in the 
developed temperate countries and in fact, many temperate countries 
now are recording increases in forest area, it remain prevalent in the 
developing temperate nations and sub-tropical areas. Mostly, 
developed nations are located in temperate domains while developing 
nations are in tropical domains22. Thus, deforestation is likened to 
forest degradation which occurs when the ecosystem functions of the 
forest are degraded but where the area remains forested rather than 
cleared. In this respect, FAO does not consider tree plantations that 
provide non-timber products to be forest even though it does classify 
rubber plantations as forest23. 
/square4 Afforestation, Reforestation and Afforestation Campaign: 
According to Michael Bredemeier and AchimDohrenbusch of the 
University of Göttingen, Germany, “Afforestation is the human-induced 
conversion of land that has not been forested for a period of at least 50 
years to forested land through planting, seeding or the human-induced 
promotion of natural seed sources.”24They went further to argue that 
                                                           20 See Sumit Chakravarty, S. K. Ghosh, C. P. Suresh, A. N. Dey and Gopal Shukla, 
“Deforestation: Causes, Effects and Control Strategies” in Clement Akais Okia 
(Ed.), Global Perspectives on Sustainable Forest Management  (Rijeka, Croatia: In 
Tech, 2012), p. 3. 21Anonymous, The Forest Resources of the Temperate Zones, Vol. II  (Rome, Italy: 
FAO, 1990) and, Anonymous, Global Forest Resources Assessment, 2010-Main 
Report: FAO Forestry Paper 163 (Rome, Italy: FA0, 2010), p. 340. 22 Sumit Chakravarty et al., p. 3.   23 Anonymous, Global Forest Resources Assessment, 2010-Main Report: FAO 
Forestry Paper 163. 24 Michael Bredemeier and Achim Dohrenbusch, “Biodiversity: Structure and 
Function, Vol. II - Afforestation and Reforestation ”, Encyclopedia of Life Support 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                              L. O. Udeagbala and S. A. Usman 
260 
 
reforestation (or re-afforestation) is “the establishment of forest in an 
area where there was no forest during the last 50 years with the 
previous crop being replaced either by different species or by the same 
species as before”25 . In addition, afforestation campaign simply means 
deliberate attempts and efforts geared towards desertification control 
through planting or re-planting the deserted or deforested areas either 
by individuals, groups, communities, governments or entities whose 
goal is to see to the restoration of the deserted and/or arid areas or 
turning them into green bed. Therefore, desertification control (DC), is 
an activity involving the integrated development of land in arid, semi-
arid and dry sub-humid zones in a sustainable method, aimed at 
preventing and/or reducing land degradation, repairing partially 
degraded land, and at restoring decertified lands26. 
 
II. Necessitating and Contributory Factors to Deforestation in 
Nigeria 
According to Owolabi,27 as the home of tropical rainforest, Nigeria has 
experienced a heavy decline in forest cover. The exploitation of the 
                                                                                                                                       
Systems (EOLSS)  (2004), accessed on March 16, 2021, 
https://www.eolss.net/sample-chapters/C09/E4-27-08-04.pdf.  25 Ibid  26 For details on this, see The Forestry Management, Evaluation and Coordinating 
Unit (FORMECU, “Forest resources study of Nigeria”, African Development 
Bank-funded Project for the FORMECU, prepared by Geomatics Nigeria Limited 
and Beak Consultants (Abuja, 1999). Cited in Nasiru Idris Medugu, M. Rafee 
Majid, Foziah Johar and I.D. Choji “The role of afforestation programme in 
combating desertification in Nigeria”, International Journal of Climate Change 
Strategies and Management, Vol. 2, No. 1, (2010), pp. 35-47.  27Owolabi Saka-rasaq, Forest Loss in Nigeria, the Impact on Climate and People 
from the perspectives of illegal Forest activities and Government Negligence . 
Being a degree thesis for University of Applied Sciences’ Bachelor of Natural 
Resources Degree programme in Sustainable Coastal Management 
(Yrkeshögskolan Novia, Finland, 2019), accessed on March 16, 2021. 
https://www.theseus.fi/bitstream/handle/10024/170981/Forest_Loss_Nigeria_Owol
abi_2019_DSCM_Thesis.pdf?sequence=4&isAllowed=y.  
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Scheme and Afforestation... 
261 
 
forest belt which accommodates woods, wildlife and other products are 
subjected  to  intense  intrusion,  vegetation  degradation,  de-
reservation for  agriculture  use, industrialization   and   urban   
development. Indeed, deforestation is so massive that, for example, 
between 1990 and 2005, Nigeria reportedly lost a staggering 79% of its 
old-growth forests28. This figure according   to   FAO increased 
exponentially as Nigeria with less than 10% forests coverage and only 
20,000hectares of primary forests has lost about 95% of its forest 
coverage to a high  rate  of  deforestation  which  is  annually  recorded  
at  5%  ranging  from  2010  and  201529.Although, deforestation 
remains a major problem occurring in many parts of Nigeria yet, the 
most adversely affected region is the less endowed Northern part of the 
country. 
Today, Nigeria is not only one of the two largest losers of annual 
natural forests on the African continent but highest in the world in 
terms of annual deforestation rate of natural forest30.  
Thus, while some analysts31 have classified causes of deforestation into 
direct and indirect causes, others32categorised it into climatic agents 
(comprising of sunlight, water and wind) and biotic agents (consisting 
of microbes, animals and other plants).  For the sake of this paper, we 
highlight below some of the leading contributory factors necessitating 
the occurrence of incidence of deforestation in Nigeria. These factors 
are by no means exhaustive. 
                                                           28 Philip Mfon (Jr), Oluyemi Ayorinde Akintoye, Glory Mfon, Tokunbo 
Olorundami, Sammy UkaUkata and Taiwo Adesola Akintoye, “Challenges of 
Deforestation in Nigeria and the Millennium Development Goals”, International 
Journal of Environment and Bioenergy, Vol. 9, No. 2 (2014), pp. 81 – 82. 29 See OwolabiSaka-rasaq, p. 1.  30SeeAbdullahi, A. et al, p. 12. 31 See Sumit Chakravarty et al., p. 7.   32 Philip Mfon (Jr) et al, p. 82. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                              L. O. Udeagbala and S. A. Usman 
262 
 
(a.) Sunlight: Although, sunlight is very essential to plant growth and 
survival especially during the process of photosynthesis when green 
plants and certain other organisms transform light energy into 
chemical energy. However, high intensity of sunlight is equally capable 
of killing plants especially young ones at formative stage thereby 
deforesting. In view of Nigeria’s location in the tropics, high intensity of 
sunlight has occasioned incidence of deforestation. 
 
(b.) Water:Like sunlight, the importance of water to plant survival 
and growth including those of other organisms in the ecosystem cannot 
be over-emphasised. Nonetheless, longperiods of torrential rainfalls 
and attendant flooding that follows in some parts of Northern and 
Southern Nigeria fell many trees that lead to their death. The 
undergrowth grasses and other species of small plants have been 
affected in several instances. 
 
(c.) Wind: Wind is the air in motion and is very essential for plant 
pollination as well as seed dispersal creating opportunity for growth of 
plants and trees. Despite the importance of wind in the pollination and 
seed dispersal, it is also associated with deforestation as 
windstormbreak branches of many trees as well as uprooting of 
trees.This no doubt, seriously affects forest preservation and/or 
conservation. 
 
(d.) Microbes:The presence and attack of microbial organisms such 
as fungi, bacteria and viruses in the forest have seriously affect many 
trees and plants and even killing some thereby leading to deforestation.  
 
(e.) Activities of Other Plants: The presence of other plants 
especially the taller trees provide shade that has tendency to retard or 
stunt the growth of their own seedlings as well as the seedlings of other 
plant species. It is noteworthy that certain plants species in the forest 
area produce toxic chemical substances that are poisonous to other 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Scheme and Afforestation... 
263 
 
species from growing or surviving among them. This obviously leads to 
deforestation.  
 
(f.) Animals:Apart from humans, certain animals,insects, rodents, 
worms and large herbivores that feed on trees or plants constitute 
serious nuisance to those trees. Sometimes, they do a lot of damage to 
these plants and forest conservation. Such animals and insects include 
locust, elephants and large antelopes etc. 
 
(g.) Humans:Humans and their activities in the forest areas are 
noted to have significant impact on deforestation. In fact, humans, of all 
agents of deforestation, bring greatest devastation to trees and plants 
in the forest bed. Without sound policies and their diligent 
implementations to restrain human interference on trees and forest 
generally, forest may soon go into extinction. Human activities in the 
forest and on plants like farming (agricultural production), building 
and opening up new settlement areas, falling trees for firewood and 
logging, grazing etc., without deliberate and committed efforts to re-
plant them, deforestation continue to be on the increase globally and 
Nigeria in particular. 
 
(h.) Agriculture: Involvement in agricultural activities have 
tremendously affected the environment generally and the forest areas 
and plants/tress specifically. While preparing for agricultural activities, 
the site is prepared by clearing the plants and grass areas as well as 
falling of trees leading to deforestation. This is usually followed with 
burning activity before embarking on cultivation leading to permanent 
destruction and/or disruption of the rainforests. In some cases, species 
distribution is highly affected leading to a change in vegetation to 
derived savannah. Also, some weeds and diseases which has now 
become nuisances in the forests have been introduced by man in his 
agricultural practices e.g. the introduction of Eupatorium adoratum 
(Siam weeds) from South East Asia to the West African sub-region 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                              L. O. Udeagbala and S. A. Usman 
264 
 
including Nigeria.Livestock grazingis part of agricultural activities that 
is causing deforestation in Nigeria.Most forests in the country have 
constantly witnessed over grazing by the livestock leading to a gradual 
change in vegetation from derived savannah to Sudan savannah as 
these animals feed on tree seedlings especially in the dry season when 
there is little grass to sustain them. These animals also feed on tree 
seedlings and branches of mature trees, there by leading to 
deforestation. 
 
(i.) Urbanisation and industrialisation: Undoubtedly, 
increasedurbanisation and human population activities have seriously 
affected the forest areas. To meet the housing and infrastructural needs 
of the growing population, large area of forests are affected on daily 
basis. 
 
(j.) Logging: Due to importance of sawn wood and/or timber in 
building and other construction activities for residential, recreational, 
transport and industrial development, many trees are felled and sawn 
without commensurate effort to replant them. 
 
(k.) Bush Burning and Fire incident: Constant bush burning 
especially during the dry/harmattan season remains a major cause of 
deforestation in the country. Although, compared to the Savanna, the 
rainforest is relatively more immune to fire and/or bush burning.  
Nonetheless, continuous burning of the rain forest leads to grasslands 
destroying most of the trees including their seedlings. 
 
(l.) Mining and petroleum extraction: The swamp forest areas of 
southern part of the country were previously protected from 
destruction or over exploitation due to their relative inaccessibility 
because of the swampy nature of the environment. Today, the story is 
not the same as these forests are being destroyed because of 
explorative activities of petroleum resources, gas flaring and oil spillage 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Scheme and Afforestation... 
265 
 
including the mining activities of several minerals in Nigeria like coal, 
tin and columbite, bauxite etc. This no doubt, substantially led to the 
destruction of the forests and the entire ecosystem. 
 
(m.) Fuel wood collection: As it is in most part of Africa and other 
parts of the underdeveloped world, firewood constitutes the major 
source of fuel in Nigeria especially among the rural people. This is 
mainly due to high cost of kerosene and unavailability of gas cooker for 
many rural dwellers. 
 
III. Consequences and Impacts of Deforestation: Why 
afforesting? 
One of the fundamental ways to rehabilitate a ‘dehydrated’ land and 
improve the climatic condition of a place as well as prevent erosion and 
flooding is through afforestation, the debate on its rationality 
notwithstanding.33 No state in Nigeria is totally free from adverse 
consequences of deforestation but the most affected states are the 
frontline states of Bauchi, Gombe, Borno, Yobe, Kano, Jigawa, Katsina, 
Sokoto, Zamfara and Kebbi which lie roughly North of latitude 12o N to 
the boundaries with both Niger and Chad Republics.34In fact, the 
Governor of Gombe state Alhaji Inuwa Yahaya who launched in July 
2020 what he called “Greener Gombe for a Greater Gombe” maintained 
that “available evidence shows that about two-thirds of our entire state 
is facing various forms of land degradation such as desertification, and 
                                                           33 Some scholars argue has some challenges. See for instance Guy Rotem, Amos 
Bouskila, Alon Rothschild, “Ecological Effects of Afforestation in the Northern 
Negev” 
file:///C:/Users/HP%20USER/Downloads/Rotem_etal_2014_EcologicaleffectsofAf
forestationintheNorthernNegev.pdf 
34 Justus EronmoseleOmijeh, “Strategies for the Control of Desertification in 
Northern Nigeria” FUTY Journal of the Environment, Vol. 3 No.1, July 2008, p.75. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                              L. O. Udeagbala and S. A. Usman 
266 
 
deforestation”35 Nearly 50% of the earth surface has been transformed 
through direct human action36 which in turn, has a lot of consequences 
like desertification, erosion, increase on the effects of climate change 
etc. While the consequences of deforestation affect every part of 
Nigeria, it is more pronounced in the arid and semi-arid and savanna 
regions. To demonstrate that Nigeria has been greatly affected by 
deforestation, it is imperative to point out that Nigeria had about 65 
million hectares of rich primary forest with attendant flora and fauna in 
the 19th century but in the 21st century, these forests were attenuated 
to just about 4 million hectares and still loses an annual average of 
350,000 hectares annually.37 
In Yobe state alone for example, about 50,000 farmers from about 100 
villages abandoned their farm work in 2002 as a result of sand dunes 
which covered their farm land as a result of desert encroachment 
which is a consequence of deforestation.38 If this is unchecked, in the 
next few years, the consequences would be more than they are today. It 
is the realization of the impending danger of deforestation that moved 
the NYSC to begin its afforestation campaign which is a desideratum. 
Afforestation on its own has its consequences which include the 
mitigation of the adverse effects of the climate change, increase in food 
production and wild life, employment and so on.  
Obviously, in view of its damaging effects on the ecosystem, lives and 
natural resources, the consequences and impacts of deforestation on 
                                                           35Uwumarogie Peter, “Gombe Launches 2020 Tree Planting Campaign” 
https://nnn.ng/gombe-launches-2020-tree-planting-campaign/ 36Kamal Mohammed Ibrahim and Sulaiman Inuwa Muhammad, “A Review of 
Afforestation Efforts in Nigeria” International Journal of Advanced Research in 
ISSN: 2278-6252 Engineering and Applied Sciences, Vol.4, No.12, 2015, p.25. 37 For details, see Oloyode in Kamal Mohammed Ibrahim and Sulaiman Inuwa 
Muhammad, “A Review of Afforestation Efforts…p.25. 38 Ibid. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Scheme and Afforestation... 
267 
 
Nigeria are profound and multidimensional. Hence, what John Wajim39 
regards as “several benefits” accruing from deforestation especially in 
terms of “aspect of livelihoods, income and employment for the 
sustenance of indigenous people”, are actually of negative impacts and 
consequences for the environment and its human, animal, plants and 
other living organisms dependents. For instance, World 
Bank40estimated that approximately 60 million indigenous people are 
almost wholly dependent on forests while 350 million people depend 
on forests for a high degree for subsistence and income, and about 1.2 
billion people rely on agro-forestry farming systems. Thus, according to 
Sahney, Benton and Falconlang41, socially, economically and 
agriculturally deforestation affects the overall quality of life of any 
nation including but not limited to human health as well as social and 
economic implications. In this respect, deforestation increases the 
vulnerability to landslides that are in turn capable of causing loss of 
lives and property. 
For Emeodilichi Mba,42 deforestation impacts are classified into 
environmental, social, health and economic impact. However, for the 
sake of convenience, we identified the following as major consequences 
and impact of deforestation in Nigeria as it is elsewhere. These are by 
no means exhaustive. 
                                                           39 See John Wajim, Impacts of Deforestation on Socio-Economic Development and 
Environment in Nigeria. In: The International Journal of Social Sciences and 
Humanities Invention, Vol. 7, No. 3  (2015), pp. 5852 – 5863, accessed on 24 March 
2021. doi:10.18535/ijsshi/v7i03.04  40See John Wajim, p. 5855.  41 For details on this, see S. Sahney, M. J. Benton, and H. J. Falcon-Lang, 
Rainforest collapse triggered Pennsylvanian Tetrapod Diversification in 
Euramerica. In: Geology, Vol. 38, No. 12 (2010), pp.1079 – 1082. 42Emeodilichi H. Mba, Assessment of Environmental Impact of Deforestation in 
Enugu, Nigeria, Resources and Environment, Vol. 8, No.4  (2018), pp. 207 – 215. 
DOI: 10.5923/j.re.20180804.03 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                              L. O. Udeagbala and S. A. Usman 
268 
 
(a.) Forest and Climate Change: One area that the consequence 
and impact of deforestation has been felt is in forest depletion and the 
attendant consequence of change in climatic condition. In this respect, 
deforestation disrupts normal weather patterns creating hotter and 
drier weather thus increasing drought and desertification, crop 
failures, melting of the polar ice caps, coastal flooding and displacement 
of major vegetation regimes. This leads to the incidence of global 
warming. Global warming or global change includes anthropogenic 
produced climatic and ecological problems such as recent apparent 
climatic temperature shifts and precipitation regimes in some areas, 
sea level rise, stratospheric ozone depletion, atmospheric pollution and 
forest decline. Because of global warming, tropical forests are shrinking 
at a rate of about five per cent per decade as forests are logged and 
cleared to supply local, regional, national and global markets for wood 
products, cattle, agricultural produce and bio fuels43. One of the most 
important ramifications of deforestation is its effect on the global 
atmosphere. Undoubtedly, deforestation contributes to global warming 
from increased atmospheric concentrations of GHG leading to net 
increase in the global mean temperature, as the forests are primary 
terrestrial sink of carbon. This mostly happens because it disrupts the 
global carbon cycle increasing the concentration of atmospheric carbon 
dioxide.Trees absorb CO2 from the atmosphere and store the carbon as 
wood or in soils. The conversion and burning of forest for farming and 
the harvest of forest for timber and fuelwood cause a net release of 
CO2from the biota to the atmosphere. As Houghton44 clearly observes, 
tropical deforestation is responsible for the emission of roughly two 
billion tons of carbon (CO2) to the atmosphere per year.Thus, the 
                                                           43 John Wajim, p. 5857 44R. A. Houghton, Tropical deforestation as a source of greenhouse gas emissions. 
In: P. Moutinho and S. Schwartzman (Eds.), Tropical Deforestation and Climate 
Change ( Belem Brazil: Amazon Institute for Environmental Research, 2005), pp. 
13 – 20.  
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Scheme and Afforestation... 
269 
 
negative consequences of global warming are catastrophic as it 
increases drought and desertification, crop failures, displacement of 
major vegetation regimes among others. 
 
(b.) Soil Damage: The impact of deforestation on the soil resource 
can be severe. The slash and burn occasioned on the deforested area 
exposes the soil to the intensity of the tropical sun thereby affecting the 
soil by increasing its compaction and reducing its organic material. 
 
(c.) Shrinkage of Natural Water Sources:Most deforested areas 
are exposed to the problem of reduction of natural water sources like 
rivers, streams, lakes that humans, animals and plants rely on for 
survival. Due to deforestation water sheds that once provided drinking 
water and irrigation water have become subject to extreme 
fluctuations in water flow. That loss of safe water puts the health of the 
people at risk45 . 
 
(d.) Loss of Forest Capital: Economically speaking, deforestation 
negatively affects the potential revenues, employment opportunities 
that forest conservation would have generated to the country 
concerned, and the affected local communities involved. Thus, the 
tropical forests destroyed each year represent a loss in forest capital 
valued at huge amounts of money46. 
 
(e.) Loss of Biodiversity:Another serious consequence of 
deforestation is the loss of biodiversity47. By loss of biodiversity, we 
                                                           45 S. Maria Packiam, Deforestation: Causes and Consequences. In: The 
International Journal of Social Sciences and Humanities Invention, Vol. 2, No. 3  
(2015), pp. 1193 – 1200, accessed on 24  march 2021, 
https://www.google.com/search?client=firefox-b-
d&q=consequances+of+deforestation+pdf.  46Ibid  47Ibid  
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                              L. O. Udeagbala and S. A. Usman 
270 
 
mean to say the likelihood of extinction of thousands of species and 
varieties of plants and animals through the process of deforestation. 
 
(f.) Food Insecurity:Food security is threatened as irrigation water 
becomes scarcer.  The high sedimentation loads carried by the river 
devastate fresh water and coastal fisheries. It is also one of the 
principal causes of the decline of coastal coral reefs. Due to non-
retention of water in the water shed areas sudden furious flood, occur 
during the rainy season. 
 
IV. The Role of the NYSC in Afforestation 
To appreciate the role of the NYSC in afforestation campaign in Nigeria, 
it is important to understand the philosophy vis-à-vis the mission and 
vision behind its establishment in the country in 1973 after the end of 
the Nigerian Civil War. Therefore, according to the NYSC portal,48the 
creation of the scheme by decree No.24 of 22ndMay 1973 was in a bid to 
reconstruct, reconcile and rebuild the country in post-Nigerian Civil 
War period. Hence, its establishment is “with a view to the proper 
encouragement and development of common ties among the youths of 
Nigeria and the promotion of national unity.”49To Veronica Elemure50 , 
“the scheme was conceived to involve youths in the future of Nigeria 
and in the process, build leadership skills as well as develop 
citizenry.”The promulgated Decree 51 of 16th June 1993 which repealed 
                                                           48Available at https://www.nysc.gov.ng/aboutscheme.html, accessed on 24 March 
2021.  49Ibid  50 Veronica EhisElemure, Effectiveness of the National Youth Service Corps 
Scheme Among 2012-2013 Corps Members in Lagos and Oyo States, Nigeria . 
Unpublished PhD Thesis in the International Centre for Educational Evaluation 
(ICEE),Submitted to the Institute of Education, The University of Ibadan (2015), p. 
1, accessed on 25 March  2021, 
http://80.240.30.238/bitstream/123456789/3580/1/%2811%29%20ui_thesis_elemur
e_v.e_effectiveness_2015_full_work.pdf.  
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Scheme and Afforestation... 
271 
 
the original decree establishing it specifically identified the objectives 
of the schemes. 
From the stated objectives it can be gathered that beyond promoting 
national unity and integration, the NYSC is positioned to be actively 
engaged in the afforestation campaign. This is particularly so because it 
is a patriotic duty to the nation given the consequences and impacts of 
deforestation on the Nigerian economy and general wellbeing of 
citizens and the entire ecosystem. In addition, the scheme afforestation 
campaign across the length and breadth of Nigeria is in line with 
President Muhammadu Buhari’s promise to the global audience during 
the 74th Session of the United Nations General Assembly in New York, 
United States of America, in September 2019 to plant 25 million trees 
in Nigeria by 2030.51 It is in view of this and other reasons that this 
section of the study interrogates the roles of the NYSC in the 
afforestation exercise. 
For the benefit of hindsight, the important role of the youthful 
population of any nation, Nigeria inclusive, in national development, is 
not in doubt. Furthermore, the fact that the scheme is a youth-based 
programme of the Federal Government of Nigeria makes the NYSC one 
of the key stakeholders in the afforestation programme in Nigeria. Even 
though afforestation is not specifically mentioned as part of the mission 
of the scheme, over the years, the corps members through their various 
Community Development Service (CDS) groups incorporate 
afforestation as part of their development service to the host 
communities. According to Abdullahi and Chikaji52 , the CDS is a 
                                                           51Vanguard, Climate change: Each NYSC member should plant one tree – NYCN 
President (March 5, 2020), accessed on March 25 2021, 
https://www.vanguardngr.com/2020/03/climate-change-each-nysc-member-should-
plant-one-tree-nycn-president/.  52 See  Muhammad Abdullahi and A. I. Chikaji, Issues in Community Development 
Service Scheme of Nigeria’s National Youth Service Corps and Its Relevance to 
Community Development, International Journal of Research in Science & 
Engineering, Vol. 2, No. 6 (December, 2016), pp. 218 – 224.  
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                              L. O. Udeagbala and S. A. Usman 
272 
 
component of NYSC through which the corps members work with the 
local communities to promote self-reliance by systematically 
prospecting and executing development projects and programmes, 
which influence positively on the socio-economic development of the 
host communities. 
The NYSC CDS is a year-round affair and is one of the four cardinal 
programmes of the scheme through which corps members work with 
the local communities to promote self-reliance. They do this by 
systematically prospecting and executing development projects and 
programme that affects the socio-economic development of the host 
communities positively. To achieve this, each corps member is assigned 
compulsorily to a particular CDS group as his/her Group CDS. While 
personal CDS project/programme is optional for interested corps 
members, group CDS is compulsory for all youth corps members with 
attendance once in a week and the remaining four days to be spent at 
the Place of Primary Assignment (PPA). The PA is the attachment of 
corps members to institutions or places where they are expected to 
work like members of staff of the organisation.53 Through the CDS, the 
NYSC has taken the initiative of tree planting especially in the Northern 
region of the country that is more prone to deforestation and 
desertification. While NYSC acknowledges the existence of sixteen (16) 
CDS Groups within the scheme, the most active in the afforestation 
campaign are the Environmental Protection and Sanitation Group (Eco-
vanguard, NESREA) and the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) 
(now Sustainable Development Goals, SDGs).54 These two CDS groups 
are specifically relevant to the afforestation campaign because of their 
active engagement in advocacy and mentoring of host communities and 
states in creating awareness on how to actualise sustainable 
development goals through tree planting, sanitation, drainage and 
                                                           53Ibid 54NYSC, ‘ABC’ of Community Development Service (NYSC NDHQ, 
Abuja:October 2014), pp. 1 – 15. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Scheme and Afforestation... 
273 
 
erosion control, afforestation and reforestation and landscaping among 
others.  
For example, in the Northwest state of Sokoto, one of the desert prone 
states in Northern Nigeria, the NYSC Sokoto State Coordinator Alhaji 
Musa Abubakar55  disclosed some times in 2017 that all the corps 
members serving in the 23 Local Government Areas would have 
planted one million trees before the end of their service year as part of 
their community development projects. This according to him is 
because, “trees are very crucial in combatting the menace of desert 
encroachment, gully erosion and flooding.” Beyond the effectiveness of 
trees in combating desertification and other environmental challenges 
like erosion and flooding, the Sokoto State NYSC Coordinator specified 
that trees were also critical in improving the socio-economic statuses of 
the people due to their medicinal uses, provision of food and aesthetics 
for the environment. Similarly, the Coordinator of the scheme in Jigawa 
State, Mr. Michael Amolo56, in an interview with the News Agency of 
Nigeria (NAN) in Dutse during the NYSC tree planting campaign, stated 
that members of the NYSC posted to the state would have successfully 
planted 3,534 trees to boost the fight against desertification. He said 
that each of the 1,767 corps members who were deployed to the state 
was expected to plant and nurture two trees during the service year57. 
He explained that the State chapter of the NYSC undertook the initiative 
in order to checkmate desert encroachment and reduce global warming 
given the fact that Jigawa was among the 11 frontline states in the 
country that are facing desert encroachment. This step has attracted 
wide commendation of Nigerians including Alhaji Idris Umar; Jigawa 
                                                           55See The Nation, NYSC to plant one million trees in Sokoto, (February 27, 2017), 
accessed on 25 March 2021, https://thenationonlineng.net/nysc-t o-plant-one-
million-trees-in-sokoto/.  56Nigerian Tribune , Corpers to plant 3,534 trees in Jigawa ― NYSC coordinator 
(August 6, 2017), accessed on 25 March 2021, https://tribuneonlineng.com/corpers-
plant-3534-trees-jigawa-%E2%80%95nysc-coordinator/.  57Ibid  
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                              L. O. Udeagbala and S. A. Usman 
274 
 
State Director of Environment who expressed optimism that before the 
end of 2020, a large swath of the state would have been covered with 
vegetation.58 This same gesture has been replicated in others states, 
through the Federal Government campaign initiative on Plant One 
Million Tree in collaboration with the NYSC.59  
Even though Northern Nigeria is more prone to desertification than the 
Southern part, the NYSC and its serving corps members have equally 
extended afforestation campaigns to some parts of the Southern region. 
For instance, as part of efforts to preserve the Anambra State 
environment, a Batch ‘B’ Corps member in the state, Mr. Ekemini 
Ekong, who served at the Anambra State College of Agriculture, 
Mgbakwu, has planted 4,200 trees comprising of cocoanut, cashew, 
Neem and Ghetina within the state capital, Awka, and its environs.60 
The NYSC, as stated earlier, has different CDS groups in line with the 
basic needs of the society. Therefore, any of these groups can partner 
with both the government and non-governmental organisations to 
achieve its objective.  This is in line with the five cross-sectoral 
developmental pillars of the NYSC that are fundamental to enabling 
youth to transit to self-fulfilled and productive adulthood with 
opportunities for full, effective and constructive participation, in line 
with the policy vision and mission.61 The purpose of creating the 
Environmental Protection and Sanitation Group is to promote and 
sustain healthy environment and to create awareness on sustainable 
                                                           58Ibid 59 See The Daily Times, Afforestation: NYSC Members to Plant 1 Million Trees in 
Kogi (June 2, 2017), accessed on 25 March 2021, 
https://dailytimes.ng/afforestation-nysc-members-plant-1-million-trees-kogi/.  60Daily Trust, Erosion: NYSC member plants 4,200 trees in Anambra (September 
28, 2016), accessed on 25 March 2021, https://dailytrust.com/erosion-nysc-
member-plants-4200-trees-in-anambra.  61Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports Development, Federal Republic of Nigeria 
National Youth Policy Enhancing Youth Development and Participation in the 
context of Sustainable Development, Abuja: Author, 2019, p.10. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Scheme and Afforestation... 
275 
 
environment management and regeneration62 while its chief activities 
include  tree planting, sanitation, drainage control, erosion control, 
reforestation and landscaping.63 
Given the importance of afforestation and the consequences of 
deforestation, the Federal Government of Nigeria through the Acting 
Director, Department of Forestry, Federal Ministry of Environment, 
Tiamiyu Oladele, announced in 2017 plans by the federal government 
to plant 30 million tree seedlings in 2020 to accelerate afforestation in 
the country.64In pursuance of this, in June 2017, the Kogi State 
Coordinator of the NYSC, Mrs Ngozi Nwatarali encouraged Corps 
members to plant one million trees in the state that year (2017). The 
Corps members who volunteered themselves for the three planting 
activities were required to mobilise others and those who participated 
in the exercise were known as Tree Planting Ambassadors 
(TPA).65They were also expected to take the campaign to schools, 
churches, mosques and other places.   
In 2019, the SDGs CDS groups in Jaba Local Government Area of 
Kaduna State on the 2019 World Environmental Health day celebration 
organised a seminar for secondary school students so that they can 
know what environmental health is about and be agents of change in 
their society. 66 
                                                           62 “ABC” Of Community Development Service” 
https://nysc.gov.ng/downloads/CDS_ABC.pdf (assessed 21/03/221) 63 Ibid. 64 “Afforestation: Nigeria to plant 300 million trees in 2020” 
https://www.premiumtimesng.com/agriculture/agric-news/377722-afforestation-
nigeria-to-plant-300-millon-trees-in-2020-official.html 65 https://corpr.com.ng/nysc-members-in-sokoto-state-to-plant-one-million-trees/ 66https://www.ifeh.org/wehd/ 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                              L. O. Udeagbala and S. A. Usman 
276 
 
Picture showing the CDS group in Jaba Local Government Area of 
Kaduna State 
 
 
 
Source: https://www.ifeh.org/wehd/ 
 
Therefore, among several stakeholders working towards afforesting or 
reforesting deforested areas in Nigeria, the NYSC has done more in this 
regard than all others.  
 
Conclusion 
This chapter examined the important role of the NYSC, has play in 
afforestation campaign beyond its traditional mandate of promoting 
national unity and integration that was part of post-civil war rebuilding 
plan of the Federal Government of Nigeria. These efforts were aimed at 
combating the menace of desertification and its associated 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Scheme and Afforestation... 
277 
 
consequences and negative impacts on the country’s ecosystem. It is 
our contention that this additional role taken up by the scheme is in 
tandem with its avowed commitment to channel the energy, vibrancy 
and dedication of teeming Nigerian youthful graduates into of saving 
the nation’s environment from imminent danger that deforestation and 
desertification pose. Over the years, the NYSC as an institution and its 
serving corps members have dutifully and patriotically heeded the 
clarion call to the afforestation programme through its aggressive 
commitment to tree planting through by Group and Personal CDS 
activities.   
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                  Patrick C. Otubo and Paul Odoh 
278 
 
 11 1144 44    
    National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and  
the Charity Group 
 
 
Patrick C. Otubo and Paul Odoh 
 
 
Introduction 
Since the return to democratic governance in Nigeria in 1999, the 
promotion of charity has become a focus of increasing interest and to a 
lesser degree investment among those who believe that charitable 
work has an important role to play in addressing human challenges and 
strengthening fundamental rights and social justice.1Within that time 
                                                           1Paula D. Johnson et’al, “Promoting Philanthropy: Global Challenges and 
Approaches”, December, (2014), 4, accessed on 11 th February, 2021 from 
www.cbd.int 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Charity Group 
279 
 
frame, the global understanding of charity has evolved considerably, 
and strategies to promote it have also expanded, though more slowly. 
Historically efforts to increase charity activities were confined mostly 
to the world’s wealthiest nations and frequently targeted the wealthiest 
individuals within those societies. Similar efforts are now occurring in 
countries all around the globe, and strategies are expanding to engage a 
much larger segment of the population-the youths.2 
Hence, all over the world, particularly in developing countries, the 
youths are the most vulnerable group to socio-economic and political 
crises. These issues of youth vulnerabilities reveal socio-economic 
impediments connected to unemployment, education and poverty on 
the one hand, and on the other, the realities of youth exclusion remain 
underpinned by weaknesses in development policy frameworks that 
barely focus on problems associated with power relations concerning 
the position of young people in decision making process that would 
have huge impact on national development.3 In the contemporary 
world, youth development programmme seeks to ensure that youth 
capabilities are central to development planning and policy making 
processes at all levels of governance.4 The youths represent the 
greatest asset of many nations, be it developing or developed. More 
importantly it is upon the shoulders of the youths that the foundational 
character of human society and development is anchored.  
The notion of development in relation to the emerging nations is 
regularly viewed in terms of economic development. This is primarily 
                                                           2Paula D. Johnson et’al, “Promoting Philanthropy, 4 3Dereck Osadere Arubayi, “Youth in Development: Understanding the 
Contributions of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) to Nigeria’s National 
Development”, (Unpublished Ph.D thesis, University of Manchester, 2015), 17, 
accessed on 11th February, 2021 from www.research.manchester.ac.uk 4Dereck Osadere Arubayi, “Youth in Development: Understanding the 
Contributions of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) to Nigeria’s National 
Development”, (Unpublished Ph.D thesis, University of Manchester, 2015), 17, 
accessed on 11th February, 2021 from www.research.manchester.ac.uk 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                  Patrick C. Otubo and Paul Odoh 
280 
 
because economic development is regarded as the main, if not the only 
means by which the developing countries can adequately respond to 
the needs of their ever increasing population; and also because 
indicators are at the moment the most clearly defined ones available to 
social scientists. However, it has become increasingly obvious that the 
socio-political indicator of countries of Africa and Asia is that, there is 
much more scene of the development process than economic, that the 
conditions of social integration and political coherence are equally, if 
not more, important development goals. Indeed, there is little doubt 
that institutional deficiencies and unfavorable attitudinal frameworks 
induce and indirectly negatively affect the conditions of development.5 
In the 1960s and 1970s, many countries in Africa established National 
Youth Service Programmes during the period of colonial independence. 
Several of these pragrammes persist to the present day though often 
with significant changes since inception as in Nigeria, Kenya, 
Zimbabwe, Zambia, Senegal and Ghana.6 Most of these National Youth 
Service Programmes focuses on mobilizing young people for national 
unity, integration and development, thereby providing young Africans 
the opportunities to become actively involved in the process of nation 
building. By investing their time, skills and energy, volunteers make a 
vital contribution to the wellbeing of their communities. As corollary, 
service programmes provide an opportunity for disenchanted youth to 
transform relationships within their communal environment, change 
the policies and values of their nation, and bring hope for the less 
privileged members of the society. In a lot of places, national service 
                                                           5Chioma Onwere, “National Youth Service Corps Programme and National 
Integration in Nigeria, (Unpublished Ph.D Thesis, University Of London, 1992),16, 
accessed on 11th February, 2021 from www.discovery.ulc.ac.uk 6Ron Israel and Sarah Nogueira, “Youth Service Programme: A Study of Promising 
Models in International Development, (2011),4, accessed on 11 th February, 2021 
from www.edu.org 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Charity Group 
281 
 
programmes have also helped to address needs that could not be met in 
their countries due to the lack of human and material resources.7 
Thus, the establishment of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) 
Scheme in 1973 was being as a result of General Yakubu Gowon’s Post-
Civil War intervention measures to foster national integration, unity 
and advance the course of socio-cultural ties among the teaming youths 
of the country. Though, almost five decades after its establishment, 
NYSC has grown quickly into an operational vehicle for harnessing the 
collective capability of the youths in Nigeria to drive the course of 
national development through its deployment strategy to key sectors of 
the economy (mainly education, health, agriculture, etc).8 
Today, the youths represent the largest age group increasingly making 
the shift to parenthood. The values, attitudes and skills they acquire 
and develop will fundamentally shape the future of the societies and 
nations to which they belong. Hence, acknowledging the impact that 
today’s youth will have on the future, many in government, multilateral 
lending institutions, international aid agencies, charity groups and civil 
society organizations are taking a growing interest in the development 
of the youth. The recognition that youths can have enormous impact 
(both positive and negative) on the wellbeing of a society is moving 
youth development from the side-line to the mainstream in the spheres 
of policy-making, program development and scholarship in different 
countries.9 
 
                                                           7Ron Israel and Sarah Nogueira, “Youth Service Programme: A Study of Promising 
Models in International Development, (2011), 4, accessed on 11 th February, 2021 
from www.edu.org 8DereckOsadereArubayi, “Youth in Development: Understanding the Contributions 
of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) to Nigeria’s National Development”, 
(Unpublished Ph.D thesis, University of Manchester, 2015), 18, accessed on 11 th 
February, 2021 from www.research.manchester.ac.uk 9Alex Etraet’al, “Youth Development through Civic Engagement: Mapping Assets 
in South Asia”, (2010), 10, accessed on 11 th February, 2021 from 
www.youthpolicy.org 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                  Patrick C. Otubo and Paul Odoh 
282 
 
Conceptual Clarifications 
Charity Group 
A charity group is an organization that helps people in need by way of 
showing them kindness. It can be described as free will donation, 
service or empowerment and charity groups are responsible for 
rendering these services.10  In other words, charity is a system of giving 
money, food or help to those who are in need or an organization that 
has the intention of giving money and assistance to the less 
privileged.11 Thus, charity is philanthropic and humanitarian in nature. 
This makes charitable works quite different from civil society groups. 
While charity groups are part of civil society groups, civil society 
groups are not charity groups in the sense that civil society groups are 
formed to pursue specific issues like the fundamental human rights of 
citizens and social justice. To put it appropriately, charities are non-
profit-organizations while not all non-profit organizations are charities. 
Though, organizations that are partly just dedicated to charitable 
purposes are sometimes regarded as or treated as charities, depending 
on specific regulations at a given jurisdiction.12 However, they share 
certain characteristics in that they are both independent of the state 
and to some extent self-generating and self-reliant.  
In another vein, charity is the act of extending love and kindness to 
others unconditionally, which is a conscious effort but the decision is 
made from the heart, without expecting any compensation. Hence, 
when charitable act is carried out selflessly, it is a one-way act where 
                                                           10Johnbull Mathew, 44 Years, Civic Servant, Kaduna, 5th March, 2021. 11OlawyiwulaLawal, “Importance and Benefits of Charity to Society”, 16 th 
November, 2016, accessed on 15 th February, 2021 from 
www.editorialcdskabba.wordpress 12New World Encyclopedia–“Charity Organisations”, accessed on 21 st February, 
2021 from https://www.newworldencyclopedia.org 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Charity Group 
283 
 
an individual gives but ask for nothing in return.13 To this effect, the 
impoverished, widows, orphans and ailing as well as those injured are 
properly placed for charitable deeds. It is due to this act of nature that 
makes it valuable and soulful. Meanwhile, there are individuals who 
believe that the act of charity should begin at home but others believe 
that it starts from the heart as a person feels the urge or deep need to 
give, beginning from home and ultimately extending to others in the 
larger society.14 These positions notwithstanding, charity has been a 
major influence in social, political, religious, moral, economic, scientific 
and technological affairs. The range of issues promoted by charitable 
groups extends from efforts to limit air pollution to efforts to define 
and protect the rights of children. It has been influential in shaping the 
outcome of issues in religion, education, health, social welfare and 
human services, including family, children and government.15 
 
Historicizing charity organizations in Nigeria 
Historically, charity group has existed in a variety of forms in all 
cultures and civilizations from time immemorial, yet most people know 
little about it and its distinctive place in human development.16 
Charitable act developed long as part of western civilization as a 
desirable quality recognized and fostered by religion throughout 
human history, and has been an integral part of European civilization. 
In medieval Europe, the Church bore the responsibility for organizing 
and promoting poor relief and it was not until the 16th century that the 
                                                           13Transparent Hands: “Concept, Purpose and Importance of Charity in our 
Society”, 19 th February, (2018), accessed on 21 st February, 2021 from 
www.transparenthand.org 14Transparent Hands: “Concept, Purpose and Importance of Charity”  15Robert L. Payton and Michael P. Moody, Understanding Philanthropy: Its 
Meaning and Mission, (USA: Indiana University Press, 2008), 20. 16Robert L. Payton and Michael P. Moody, Understanding Philanthropy: Its 
Meaning and Mission, (USA: Indiana University Press, 2008) 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                  Patrick C. Otubo and Paul Odoh 
284 
 
state began to take over this responsibility.17 But, in contemporary 
times, charitable organizations exist for a broad range of specific 
reasons, all within the overarching commitment to benefit, improve or 
uplift humanity mentally, morally or physically. The relief of poverty, 
the improvement of government and the advancement of religion, 
education and health are further examples of common purposes for the 
establishment of charity groups.18 
Through the years, charity has progressed from individual charitable 
works and deeds of helping the poor to more organized philanthropy, 
such as corporate social responsibility. Individuals, families, wealthy 
capitalists, film actors in the Nigerian movie industry and church 
leaders are using foundations and other non-profit organizations to 
contribute toward addressing social problems in Nigeria.19 As a colony 
in the British colonial system, charity in Nigeria has historic roots in 
British charitable practices and common law.   Religious teachings and 
beliefs formed the basis for most charitable acts and philanthropic 
engagements by groups and associations.20  This is the case for both 
Christians and Muslims. In the period after independence, the Nigerian 
civil war which began in 1967 to 1970 provoked the emergence of 
international charity organizations with food and relief materials for 
the poor and those affected severally by the war, especially in war torn 
‘Biafra’ region of Eastern Nigerian. Also, the crises in parts of Northern 
Nigeria, and the agitations in the Niger-Delta region of the country over 
environmental degradation by oil exploration, marginalization and 
resource control were issues that facilitated the drive for the 
proliferation of philanthropic groups and attraction of more 
                                                           17New World Encyclopedia–Charity Organisations, accessed on 21 st February, 
2021 from https://www.newworldencyclopedia.org 18New World Encyclopedia, 19AnasteriaOkaomee, “The Non-Profit Sector and Philanthropy in Nigeria”, 
accessed on 11th February, 2021 www.learningtogiven.org 20AnasteriaOkaomee, “The Non-Profit Sector and Philanthropy in Nigeria”, 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Charity Group 
285 
 
international charitable organizations into Nigeria, in the bid to 
address emerging socio-economic concerns.21 Because charity groups 
serves as platform that bridges the gap between destitution and love, it 
gives hope to the hopeless, a voice to the voiceless and strength to the 
weakest in society. It serves as a shield against human predators.22 This 
led to increased collaboration between indigenous charity groups and 
international non-governmental organizations to foster effective 
distribution of aid, wider reach of philanthropic activities in rural 
communities, and effective management of civil society organizations.23 
However, the era of political disorder and repression that existed 
during the military dictatorships led to withdrawal of international 
donor organizations from dealing directly with government. These 
groups formed new networks through which they carried out 
charitable functions, channelling most of their funds toward human 
rights and good governance initiatives, and addressing HIV/AIDS.24 
Through partnership with relevant government establishments like 
NYSC, charity organizations have been mobilized to impact on the 
development of our communities in Nigeria in addressing issues such 
as drug abuse, HIV/AIDS, Girl Child Education, youth volunteerism, as 
“moral action in response to human problems”.25 Meanwhile, with the 
return of democracy in 1999, charity organizations have become more 
organized and top indigenous foundations are making generous impact 
beyond the shores of Nigeria and Africa. Among them are; David 
                                                           21AnasteriaOkaomee, “The Non-Profit Sector and Philanthropy in Nigeria”, 
accessed on 11th February, 2021 www.learningtogiven.org 22Stephen Benjamin, 35+, Ex-Corps Member, Kaduna, 3rd March, 2021. Mr. 
Benjamin participated in many voluntary activities during his youth service days. 
Up till date, he is still active with United Nations U-Report 23AnasteriaOkaomee, “The Non-Profit Sector and Philanthropy in Nigeria”, 24AnasteriaOkaomee, “The Non-Profit Sector and Philanthropy in Nigeria”, 25Robert L. Payton and Michael P. Moody, Understanding Philanthropy: Its 
Meaning and Mission, (USA: Indiana University Press, 2008), 9 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                  Patrick C. Otubo and Paul Odoh 
286 
 
Oyedepo Foundation, Chris Oyakhilome Foundation, Aliko Dangote 
Foundation, T.Y. Danjuma Foundation, Tony Elumelu Foundation.26 
 
Purpose and Importance of Charity Groups in Community 
Development Service 
Charity begins with the innermost recognition of a need to show 
compassion to others whether knowingly or unknowingly. Some are 
motivated by deep interest in solving societal problems, especially in 
alleviating poverty and the provision of free education as well as 
healthcare. Others are interested in creating a family legacy in 
philanthropic giving.27 That each and every one of us has problems, 
troubles and grief at some point in life is an assertion that cannot be 
disputed. But charity begins with those who learn to be selfless by 
downplaying their own problems in order to expand the bond of 
compassion, kindness and love to help others.28 Consequently, charity 
is essential and therefore meant to be carried out for the benefit of 
humanity, to relief and to offer assistance to communities and people in 
their times of need in any part of the world, particularly those who are 
victims of war, natural disaster, catastrophe, hunger, disease, poverty 
among others by supplying them with food, shelter, medical facilities 
and other basic needs.29 Such charitable works are essential tools in 
our collective attempts to solve public problems.30 This has gained 
impetus in advancing the education of young people for the benefit of 
the good of society by giving scholarships and awards to students in 
                                                           26AnasteriaOkaomee, “The Non-Profit Sector and Philanthropy in Nigeria”, 
accessed on 11th February, 2021 www.learningtogiven.org 27AnasteriaOkaomee, “The Non-Profit Sector and Philanthropy in Nigeria”, 28Transparent Hands: Concept, Purpose and Importance of Charity in our Society, 
19th February, (2018), accessed on 21 st February, 2021 from 
www.transparenthand.org 29Transparent Hands: Concept, Purpose and Importance of Charity in our Society, 
19th February,  30Robert L. Payton and Michael P. Moody, Understanding Philanthropy: Its 
Meaning and Mission, (USA: Indiana University Press, 2008), 10. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Charity Group 
287 
 
full-time studies. When considering poverty in developing countries 
like Nigeria for instance, people feel deep pain and regret but seem to 
put no commensurate effort to reduce or eradicate the problem. Thus, 
when everyone is giving to an effective charity, the size of our donation 
would directly correspond to the number of people such groups are 
able to help in alleviating the suffering of mankind.31 Therefore, a 
charity group intended to benefit society, community or a specific 
group of people, may have educational, humanitarian or religious 
intentions. For this reason, charity goes beyond giving relief to the 
indigent, by extending to the promotion of happiness and the support 
of many worthwhile reasons.32 
Furthermore, the greatest gift to the human community would be when 
we contribute to making lives better in common, when we touch the 
lives of others by mark of donations to charity, spreading light to the 
most deprived and enlighten our souls in the process. That is why non-
profit, charitable organizations are mostly staffed by volunteers 
committed and devoted to improving the lives of abandoned, poor 
children, adults, orphans and destitute in the society, in order to 
provide children and families with clothing, food, education, shelter 
and teaching. Through love, motivation and opportunities, charity 
organizations help people to thrive and become self-reliant and 
sufficient in life,33 while serving as gaps in some instances where 
government cannot cover and with NYSC’s large coverage, the reach of 
these groups is further widened.34 
 
                                                           31Transparent Hands: “Concept, Purpose and Importance of Charity in our 
Society”, 19 th February, (2018), accessed on 21 st February, 2021 from 
www.transparenthand.org 32 “New World Encyclopedia–Charity Organisations”, accessed on 21 st February, 
2021 from https://www.newworldencyclopedia.org 33Transparent Hands: “Concept, Purpose and Importance, 34Mary Usman, 58 Years, Civil Servant, Kaduna, 5th March, 2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                  Patrick C. Otubo and Paul Odoh 
288 
 
NYSC, Charity Groups and Strategic Partnerships: A Focus on the 
ENGINE and NGVP Programme 
The problems facing Nigeria as a developing nation are enormous, 
ranging from unemployment, poverty, high degree of illiteracy, severe 
shortage of highly skilled personnel and the uneven distribution of 
manpower across the country. Against this backdrop, the establishment 
of NYSC Scheme in 1973 was a response by the Federal Military 
Government to avert the situation.35 In this regards, many charity 
groups have strategically partnered with NYSC such as United Nations 
Millennium Campaign (UNMC) on the engagement of corps members as 
enumerators in the 774 local government areas and selected schools, 
NYSC/UNICEF partnership on the U-Report to mobililse one million U-
Reports by 2015, NYSC/HIV/AIDS Advocacy Programme in partnership 
with UNICEF, NYSC/Mercy Corps Nigeria partnership in Educating 
Nigerian Girls in New Enterprises (ENGINE), National Graduate 
Volunteer Programme (NGVP) in partnership with Voluntary Service 
Overseas (VSO) Nigeria among others in order to contribute to the 
development of Nigerian communities and instil the spirit of 
volunteerism in the youths. However, for the purpose of this paper, 
concentration will be placed on two case studies: Educating Nigerian 
Girls in New Enterprises (ENGINE) and National Graduate Volunteer 
Programme (NGVP). 
 
NYSC and Mercy Corps Partnership in Educating Nigerian Girls in 
New Enterprises (ENGINE) 
Nigeria as a country is diverse in culture, ethnicity, and religion and like 
most developing nations it confronts significant economic and social 
challenges. Women and girls in more conservative areas of the country 
                                                           35Obinna Arigbo et’al, “Community Involvement in The National Youth Service 
Corps Community Development Service Projects in Abia State, Nigeria”, Journal 
of Agricultural Extension, Vol. 23 (4), October, (2019), 66, accessed on 11 th 
February, 2021 from http://journal.aesonnigeria.org 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Charity Group 
289 
 
usually face norms that restrict their ability to attend school, engage in 
paid employment and participate in decision-making at home.36 At the 
top of these challenges is high rate of poverty, illiteracy, narrow access 
to finance and markets for income generation. These are often 
compounded by other problems such as early marriage and pregnancy, 
lack of life skills and vocational skills training, distance to school, poor 
school infrastructure facilities and poorly trained teachers. For 
instance, where limited opportunities exist, girls experience further 
constraints ranging from security concerns, lack of guidance and 
counselling, inadequate reproductive health education and services, 
lack of community support and a conducive environment to gender 
inequalities and norms in and out of classrooms which negatively affect 
their progress.37 These limitations are further aggravated by systemic 
weakness and one-size-fits-all approach to resolve challenges that 
often differ from one state or community to the other, instead of 
utilizing a variety of solutions. It is against this background that Mercy 
Corps in partnership with NYSC is implementing Nigerian Girls in New 
Enterprises (ENGINE) programme; to ensure that no girl will be left 
behind.38 
Thus the ENGINE programme is about girl child education whose 
importance to national development cannot be overemphasized. Corps 
members have been used to preach the importance of the girl child 
education and it has been successful because of the wide coverage of 
the NYSC scheme.39 To this effect, sensitization, recruitment and 
training for one hundred and thirty one corps members volunteers for 
                                                           36Jeni Klugman et’al, “Working to Empower Girls in Nigeria: Highlights of the 
Educating Nigerian Girls in New Enterprises (ENGINE) Programme”, (2018),4,  
accessed on 21st February, 2021 from www.giwps.georgetown.edu 37“Scaling up Interventions for Girls: Lessons Learned from ENGINE II 
Programme”, 8 th December, (2020), accessed on 3 rd March, 2021 from 
https://www.thecable.ng 38“Scaling up Interventions for Girls 39Kutama Jamilu, 42 Years, Civil Servant, Kaduna, 5th March, 2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                  Patrick C. Otubo and Paul Odoh 
290 
 
the Mercy Corps Educating Nigerian Girls in New Enterprises in the 
Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Kano and Kaduna was conducted in 
2015.40 Through this strategic partnership, NYSC is able to achieve 
some of its objectives and accommodate certain percentage of the 
uneducated fraction of the youth in its programme of building a united 
Nigeria by giving priority to girls who are the most vulnerable in the 
society.41 Not only on the part of NYSC but that of Mercy Corps too as a 
charity group that fosters young people’s resilience by facilitating 
greater learning, protection and security as well as living opportunities. 
In addition, ENGINE sought after marginalized girls, identified by such 
circumstances as being married, pregnant or having a child before the 
age of eighteen; girls who are divorced or widowed; living in a 
household who are orphans or come from a single-parent household; 
having a disability; living in a household with a family member who has 
disability; or being unable to pay or afford school fees. The programme 
sought to expand opportunities for girls ages sixteen to nineteen, both 
those who were in school and those out of school, by building their 
confidence; increasing their financial management, business and 
leadership skills, and working to influence gender norms around 
women and girls’ economic empowerment in the society. Key elements 
of the programme include providing safe spaces for girls and educating 
them in Mathematics, English and financial management, leadership 
and life skills. For girls who were out of school or not in school, the 
programme provided additional support, mentoring girls who were 
running their own businesses, connecting them to value chains, and 
providing opportunities to join savings groups. The programme ran in 
two nine-month cycles, beginning in 2014 and ending in 2016 42 in the 
                                                           40National Youth Service Corps Official Website, www.nysc.gov.ng 41Emilia Tanko, 35 Years, Civil Servant, interviewed at Kaduna, 14th 
February,2021. 
42Jeni Klugman et’al, “Working to Empower Girls in Nigeria: Highlights of the 
Educating Nigerian Girls in New Enterprises (ENGINE) Programme”, (2018), 6, 
accessed on 21st February, 2021 from www.giwps.georgetown.edu 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Charity Group 
291 
 
first phrase. This justifies the assertion that NYSC uses charity 
organizations as a means to enhance its service delivery to its 
participants and the host communities through their places of primary 
assignments or community development service.43This provides the 
backdrop for understanding the ideological model of involving the 
youth in development in relations to global and regional constructions 
of policy directives that guide gender balance in youth inclusion, 
participation and empowerment for societal and human development 
agenda.44 
In the second phrase, Mercy Corps led Educating Nigerian Girls in New 
Enterprises (ENGINE) II is a three and half year (April 2017 to October 
2020) adolescent girls education programme intended to address the 
barriers that limit marginalized girls’ access to education and business 
opportunities and to create an enabling environment to succeed. Mercy 
Corps piloted the implementation of ENGINE II in Nigeria, along with 
four Civil Society Groups including Society for Women Development of 
Nigeria (SWODEN) in Kano, Action Health Incorporated (AHI) in Lagos, 
and Kindling Hope across Nations Initiative (KHAN) in Kaduna and 
Tabitha Cumi Foundation (TCF) in the Federal Capital Territory.45 This 
strategic partnership resulted in tremendous achievement in providing 
support to young women and girls through safe spaces for tens of 
thousands of adolescent girls across the country to use these spaces to 
educate in-school and out-of-school girls in their communities, by 
acquiring the skills they need to earn a living of their own and gain 
                                                           43Alhaji Taura M. 56 Years, Civil Servant, Kaduna, 5th March, 2021. 44Dereck Osadere Arubayi, “Youth in Development: Understanding the 
Contributions of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) to Nigeria’s National 
Development”, (Unpublished Ph.D thesis, University of Manchester, 2015), 58, 
accessed on 11th February, 2021 from www.research.manchester.ac.uk 45“Scaling up Interventions for Girls: Lessons Learned from ENGINE II 
Programme”, accessed on 3rd March, 2021 from https://www.thecable.ng 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                  Patrick C. Otubo and Paul Odoh 
292 
 
access to financial services.46 This validates the statement that NYSC’s 
partnership with charity groups creates an avenue where the core 
purpose for the   establishment of the scheme (socio-cultural and 
national integration) is feasible. Hence, this partnership creates room 
for the realization of the goals of the formation of NYSC scheme.47 More 
so, ENGINE has been helpful. Studies have shown that some of the 
things that make the girl child most vulnerable to sexual exploitation 
are poverty and illiteracy. As such, with programmes like ENGINE, 
STREET-CHILD NIGERIA, etc, the global vision of providing a danger-
free society for the adolescents, teenagers and youths against 
trafficking in persons, drugs, rape, etc becomes tangible.48 Through this 
partnership, the project has gained recognition, wider coverage area as 
a result of the NYSC posting policy and readily available skilled 
professionals at its disposal to deliver voluntary services at no cost.49 
As a consequence, the NYSC scheme being a state-run youth 
organization is well-positioned to help build the capacity of the 
Nigerian girl-child to become economically relevant and productive in 
individual and family life.50 Hence, for Nigeria to re-strategize its 
youthful population to take its rightful place in national development, 
consideration must be given to the social demography, economic and 
political discrepancies that exist in the country. This will serve as a 
fundamental step towards peace, security and inclusive expansion on a 
national scale in conjunction with the support of charity groups.   
                                                           46“Mercy Corps Nigeria: Where We Work”, accessed on 3rd March, 2021from 
https://mercycorps.org 47Aliyu Ahmed, 26 Years, Corps Member, Kaduna, 3rd March, 2021. 48Stephen Benjamin, 35+, Ex-Corps Member, Kaduna, 3rd March, 2021. Benjamin 
participated in many voluntary activities during his youth service days. Up till date, 
he is still active with United Nations U-Reporter. 49Emilia Tanko, 35 Years, Civil Servant, interviewed at Kaduna, 14th 
February,2021. 50Moses Odinaka Junior, 22 Years, Corps Member, Kaduna, 3rd March, 2021. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Charity Group 
293 
 
The ENGINE II programme witnessed lots of successes in improving 
learning outcomes and boosting economic opportunities for 
marginalized and less privileged girls across the states of Kano, 
Kaduna, Lagos and Federal Capital Territory. It was planned around 
three core outcomes of Learning, Transition and Sustainability to 
achieve enhanced learning experience, increase income generation and 
asset building skills, enhance life skills training opportunities, improve 
gatekeepers commitment and perception towards girl’s education and 
expand policies and practices beneficial to adolescent girls and young 
women.51 
 
Table 14.1: Activities and Expected Results of the Engine 
Programme 
Group and activities Expected results 
Out-of-school girls 
• Safe Spaces for girls that included 
weekly instruction sessions 
(2 hours a week) in business, 
financial, leadership, and life skills 
• Connections to value chains (Coca-
Cola, Aritel, d.light) 
• Access to savings groups 
• Mentors and support to girls 
running businesses 
 
• Increased income 
• Increased business, 
financial   
management, and 
entrepreneurship skills  
• Increased life and 
leadership skills 
• Small businesses opened 
• Savings groups joined 
 
Students 
Safe Spaces for girls that included 
weekly instruction sessions (2 hours a 
week) on academics and financial, 
leadership, and life skills 
 
• Improved learning 
outcomes in math and  
reading 
• Better financial 
management skills,  
                                                           51“Scaling up Interventions for Girls: Lessons Learned from ENGINE II 
Programme”, accessed on 3rd March, 2021 from https://www.thecable.ng 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                  Patrick C. Otubo and Paul Odoh 
294 
 
including increased 
savings 
• Better life and 
leadership skills 
• Increased secondary 
school completion  
rate 
 
Gatekeepers of students 
• Organized “Champion days” to 
showcase girls’ activities  
• Worked with School Based 
Management to implement 
strategies to keep girls in school 
• Worked with religious leaders to 
promote girls’ education in 
sermons and outreach 
• Worked with State Advisory 
Groups that promoted policies 
and actions that support girls’ 
education 
 
• Improved perceptions 
of girls  
• Girls empowered to 
make more decisions 
about their future 
 
 
Source: Jeni Klugman, Jennifer Parsons and Tatiana Melnikova52 
The table above is a reflection of the target population of the ENGINE 
programme and expected outcomes. As stated earlier, to be qualified 
for a programme, girls had to be between the ages of 16 to 19 years and 
must fulfilled the outlined conditions for qualification of being married, 
an orphan, pregnant, divorced, widowed, had a child, has disability, etc. 
 
                                                           52Jeni Klugmanet’al, “Working to Empower Girls in Nigeria: Highlights of the 
Educating Nigerian Girls in New Enterprises (ENGINE) Programme”, (2018), 14, 
accessed on 21st February, 2021 from www.giwps.georgetown.edu 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Charity Group 
295 
 
NYSC and Voluntary Service Overseas (VSO) Partnership on 
National Graduate Volunteer Programme (NGVP) 
The noble idea to give or offer any form of help when necessary by an 
individual or group of individuals; social and corporate groups, 
religions bodies and professional organizations, etc either to private 
individuals, communities, schools or institutions and countries, is not a 
new development. This much recognized trends of voluntary service, 
either to an individual or group of individuals, nation-states, 
institutions and comity of nations is generally accepted by national 
governments as a means by which governments’ policies and efforts to 
maintain national peace, security and development could be 
complemented. In many developed and developing countries, volunteer 
service or volunteerism is targeted at offering the opportunities to 
young people, professional and experts to render voluntary services to 
the nation. There is no denial that offering young people opportunity to 
develop essential a, the unique contribution of VSO consisted of a 
strategic partnership with NYSC to identify work in emergent areas 
using highly qualified volunteers to tackle poverty and marginalization 
of youth in a holistic approach.53 The contribution of national 
volunteering is in two-fold. Volunteers provide specialized support and 
competence building for partners, communities and primary actors on 
the one hand and on the other hand also deliver voice that produce 
outcomes towards improving people’s lives and giving more voice and 
agency to vulnerable groups in society such as youth and children. It 
was apparent that volunteers take part in service delivery to primary 
actors in communities; such as teaching students, extending extension 
services to rural farming communities, thereby contributing to 
improving lives for these stakeholders. Volunteers further engage and 
empower other marginalized groups to have voice and become active 
citizens. National volunteering also enables marginalized groups such 
                                                           53“Volunteering Opportunity with VSO – NYSC for Nigerians”, 5 th November, 
(2014), accessed on 28th February, 2021 from www.opportunitydesk.org 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                  Patrick C. Otubo and Paul Odoh 
296 
 
as women farmers and young people in communities build skills 
through the act of volunteerism.54 In this context, VSO partnership with 
NYSC on the NGVP involved the deployment of ex and serving corps 
members who volunteer to work in the areas of education, health and 
agriculture which has impacted on the lives of youths in many 
communities and states in Nigeria.55 
 
Figure 14.1: VSO Nigeria Pyramid of Volunteers  
 
 
 
Source: Alfred Kuma and Janet Clark56 
The diagram gives detailed analysis of the volunteering approaches. 
Shown in a pyramid framework, it ensures the effective contribution to 
                                                           54Alfred Kuma and Janet Clark, “Evaluation of Approaches to National 
Volunteering: VSO Nigeria”, (2016), 8, accessed on 11 th February, 2021 from 
www.vsointernational.org 55“VSO Lauds NYSC for their Support towards its Programmes”, 11 th July, (2017), 
accessed on 28th February, 2021 from www.corpr.com.ng 56Alfred Kuma and Janet Clark, “Evaluation of Approaches to National 
Volunteering: VSO Nigeria”, (2016), 15, accessed on 11 th February, 2021 from 
www.vsointernational.org 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Charity Group 
297 
 
community in conjunction with NYSC members. It encapsulates the 
stakeholders, strategy and project implementation mechanisms. 
In another ananlysis, the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), 
Volunteers in the National Graduate Volunteering Programme (NGVP), 
National Volunteers in the International Citizen Service Programme 
(ICS), Skilled and Professional Volunteers Programme, among other 
models in the history of the country were found to be underutilized. 
Rather than engaging themselves in promoting efficient community 
based voluntary services, and in the fight against poverty and 
inequality, the government officials channel volunteer’s programmes 
toward selfish gains. In real sense, national voluntary Service is 
understood to contribute to homeland development.57 The role and 
contribution of volunteering services to development is enormous from 
the perspective of sustainable livelihoods and value-based while 
expressing the wellbeing of a people. Contrary to popular perceptions, 
the poor income nations are likely to volunteer much more than the 
rich income nations of the world. In doing so, they are expected to 
realize their assets which include knowledge, skills and social networks 
for their benefits and that of their families and communities as well. In 
addition, volunteering is likely to reduce social exclusion that is often 
the result of poverty, marginalization and other forms of inequality in 
the society. Therefore, volunteer engagement promotes the civic values 
and social cohesion which diminishes violent conflict at all levels and 
also fosters reconciliation in post-conflict situations.58To this end, the 
NYSC and VSO partnership in capacity building and mobilization has 
offered the youth critical insights as well as improvement through 
experience gained in making huge input towards national development. 
Situating the foregoing within the context of Nigerian youth 
                                                           57Okereka O. Princewell and Oluka N. Lukas, “Understanding Volunteerism and Its 
Implications for National Development: A Perspective from Nigeria”, Vol.6, No 1, 
(2020), 32, accessed on 21st February, 2021 from www.iiardpub.org 58Okereka O. Princewell and Oluka N. Lukas, “Understanding Volunteerism”,32 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                  Patrick C. Otubo and Paul Odoh 
298 
 
development standpoint, it is acknowledged that youth capabilities are 
limited by lack of economic opportunities, unemployment, an 
ineffectual educational system and a lack of institutional capacity to 
sustain human interventions in development. This makes the 
partnership a worthwhile endeavour and justifies the assertion that 
volunteerism is the vehicle or avenue that people and groups of like 
minds uses to make impact and contribute to the development of their 
community, nation and society at large.59 
 
Figure 3: National Volunteering Models of VSO Nigeria 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Source: Alfred Kuma and Janet Clark60 
                                                           59JimohAbdullahi, 25 Years, Corps Member, Kaduna, 26th February, 2021.  60Alfred Kuma and Janet Clark, “Evaluation of Approaches to National 
Volunteering: VSO Nigeria”, (2016), accessed on 11 th February, 2021 from 
www.vsointernational.org 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Charity Group 
299 
 
The table above shows five volunteering approaches adopted by VSO 
with further explanation along each one. NYSC members engaged in 
community development services and sent to schools in rural 
communities to help improve the quality of teaching and learning, 
while empowering other marginalized groups for impact creation. 
 
Conclusion  
From the analysis and findings on NYSC and Charity Groups, it is very 
clear that there have been significant benefits that accrue to the youth 
involved in voluntary actions by way of developing their capacity to 
become productive citizens thereby contributing to national 
development, especially due to the wider coverage of NYSC. Also, by 
acquiring skills, their employability chances has increased since they 
can now do their tasks better. In other words, this kind of partnership 
paves the way for both organizations to achieve their set goals of 
impacting on the socio-economic development of the nation and 
instilling in the youth the spirit of volunteerism.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                  Patrick C. Otubo and Paul Odoh 
300 
 
Notes 
 
Aliyu Ahmed, 26 Years, Corps Member, Kaduna, 3rd March, 2021. 
AlhajiTaura M. 56 Years, Civil Servant, Kaduna, 5th March, 2021. 
Alfred Kuma and Janet Clark, “Evaluation of Approaches to National 
Volunteering: VSO Nigeria”, (2016), accessed on 11th February, 
2021 from www.vsointernational.org 
Alex Etraet’al, “Youth Development through Civic Engagement: 
Mapping Assets in South Asia”, (2010), accessed on 11th 
February, 2021 from www.youthpolicy.org 
Anasteria Okaomee, “The Non-Profit Sector and Philanthropy in 
Nigeria”, accessed on 11 th February, 2021 
www.learningtogiven.org 
Chioma Onwere, “National Youth Service Corps Programme and 
National Integration in Nigeria, (Unpublished Ph.D Thesis, 
University Of London, 1992), accessed on 11th February, 2021 
from www.discovery.ulc.ac.uk 
Dereck OsadereArubayi, “Youth in Development: Understanding the 
Contributions of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) to 
Nigeria’s National Development”, (Unpublished Ph.D thesis, 
University of Manchester, 2015), accessed on 11th February, 
2021 from www.research.manchester.ac.uk 
Emilia Tanko, 35 Years, Civil Servant, interviewed at Kaduna, 14th 
February,2021. 
Jimoh Abdullahi, 25 Years, Corps Member, Kaduna, 26th February, 
2021.  
JB Olawumi, Foreword to “ABC” of Community Development Service” 
(2014), accessed on 11th February, 2021 from www.nysc.gov.ng 
Jeni Klugman et’al, “Working to Empower Girls in Nigeria: Highlights of 
the Educating Nigerian Girls in New Enterprises (ENGINE) 
Programme”, (2018), accessed on 21st February, 2021 from 
www.giwps.georgetown.edu 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Charity Group 
301 
 
Johnbull Mathew, 44 Years, Civic Servant, Kaduna, 5th March, 2021. 
Kutama Jamilu, 42 Years, Civil Servant, Kaduna, 5th March, 2021. 
Maduawuchi Obialo, “History of NYSC in Nigeria: When NYSC Started 
and Purpose”, October 2, 2019, accessed on 21st  February from 
https://nigerianinfopedia.com.ng/history-of-nysc-in-nigeria/ 
Mary Usman, 58 Years, Civil Servant, Kaduna, 5th March, 2021. 
Moses Odinaka Junior, 22 Years, Corps Member, Kaduna, 3rd March, 
2021. 
“Mercy Corps Nigeria: Where We Work”, accessed on 3rd March, 
2021from https://mercycorps.org 
National Youth Service Corps Official Website, www.nysc.gov.ng 
“New World Encyclopedia–Charity Organisations”, accessed on 21st 
February, 2021 from https://www.newworldencyclopedia.org 
Olawyiwula Lawal, “Importance and Benefits of Charity to Society”, 16th 
November, 2016, accessed on 15th February, 2021 from 
www.editorialcdskabba.wordpress 
Obinna Arigboet’al, “Community Involvement in The National Youth 
Service Corps Community Development Service Projects in Abia 
State, Nigeria”, Journal of Agricultural Extension, Vol. 23 (4), 
October, (2019), accessed on 11th February, 2021 from 
http://journal.aesonnigeria.org 
Okereka O. Princewell and Oluka N. Lukas, “Understanding 
Volunteerism and Its Implications for National Development: A 
Perspective from Nigeria”, Vol.6, No 1, (2020), accessed on 21st 
February, 2021 from www.iiardpub.org 
Paula D. Johnson et’al, “Promoting Philanthropy: Global Challenges and 
Approaches”, December, (2014), accessed on 11th February, 
2021 from www.cbd.int 
Robert L. Payton and Michael P. Moody, Understanding Philanthropy: 
Its Meaning and Mission, (USA: Indiana University Press, 2008) 
Ron Israel and Sarah Nogueira, “Youth Service Programme: A Study of 
Promising Models in International Development, (2011), 
accessed on 11th February, 2021 from www.edu.org 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                  Patrick C. Otubo and Paul Odoh 
302 
 
“Scaling up Interventions for Girls: Lessons Learned from ENGINE II 
Programme”, accessed on 3rd March, 2021 from 
https://www.thecable.ng 
Stephen Benjamin, 35+, Ex-Corps Member, Kaduna, 3rd March, 2021. 
Mr. Benjamin participated in many voluntary activities during 
his youth service days. Up till date, he is still active with United 
Nations U-Report 
“The National Youth Service Corps: A Bridge to Nationalism in Nigeria”, 
7th December, (2017), accessed on 21st February, 2021 from 
www.cfr.org 
Transparent Hands: Concept, Purpose and Importance of Charity in our 
Society, 19th February, (2018), accessed on 21st February, 2021 
from www.transparenthand.org 
Veronica Ehis Elemure, “Effectiveness of the National Youth Service 
Corps Scheme Among 2012 – 2013 Corps Members in Lagos 
and Oyo States, Nigeria”, (Unpublished Ph.D Thesis, University 
of Ibadan, 2015), accessed from www.ui_thesis_elemure_v.e 
“Volunteering Opportunity with VSO – NYSC for Nigerians”, 5th 
November, (2014), accessed on 28th February, 2021 from 
www.opportunitydesk.org 
“VSO Lauds NYSC for their Support towards its Programmes”, 11th July, 
(2017), accessed on 28 th February, 2021 from 
www.corpr.com.ng 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Trends, Continuity and Change in the Nigeria’s National Youth Service... 
303 
 
    11 1155 55    
    Trends, Continuity and Change in the Nigeria’s 
National Youth Service Scheme 
 
 
Olutayo Ajibade 
and 
Emilia Tanko 
 
 
Introduction 
Throughout human history, the population of the youth in every society 
is perceived to be the power house of development. This has made 
most modern nations to develop various programme for integration 
and unity, especially in plural societies like modern African states, 
which were created for western capitalist interest. Sometimes, these 
kinds of national programs are established in the states after national 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                              O. Ajibade and E. Tanko 
304 
 
conflicts (civil war) in order to bridge the gaps of integration created by 
the wars. Similarly, the programmes are established to train the youth 
of such a given nation on commitment to nationhood and development. 
The NYSC scheme was established in a bid to reconcile, reconstruct and 
re-build the country following the Nigerian Civil war (1967 -1970). The 
hapless antecedents in Nigeria’s national history provided momentum 
for the establishment of the National Youth Service Corps through 
Decree No.24 of 22nd May, 1973 which declared that the NYSC was 
being founded "with a view to ensure proper encouragement and 
development of common ties among Nigerian youths and for the 
promotion of national unity."1 Nigeria as a developing country, is 
plagued by the challenges present in developing state, specifically mass 
illiteracy, poverty, serious shortage of high skilled workforce (backed 
up by uneven distribution of the available skilled workforce), 
inadequate housing and socio-economic infrastructural amenities. As a 
remedial action, the youth mobilised into the NYSC programme were 
expected to tackle the serious shortage and unequal distribution of 
skilled labour throughout the country. Similarly, enlisting youth from 
different areas of the country to serve together and introducing them to 
the manner of living in different parts of Nigeria, is designed to 
“remove ignorance and prejudice and promote national unity.”2 As such, 
the concentration on tertiary-educated youths recognises their role as 
future national leaders and influencers, and also their ability to supply 
skilled labour. 
The introduction of NYSC was welcomed with resistance and public 
protests.3 The NYSC confronted resistance from the start, even leading 
                                                           1 Nigeria Military Government, Establishment of National Youth Service Corps by 
Decree No.24 of 22nd May, 1973, 2NYSC Act of 1973, 3Sanda, A.O. “Problems and prospects of the National Youth Service Corps in 
Nigeria.” Report submitted to the Nigerian Institute of Social and Economic 
Research, University of Ibadan, April, 1976, p. 34. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Trends, Continuity and Change in the Nigeria’s National Youth Service... 
305 
 
to a riot at the University of Lagos.4 There were massive objections, 
people and students misunderstood the idea of the scheme for a system 
of reimbursing the tuition their families had expended in their training, 
which in the opinion made the basic monthly allowance meager; all 
these were of serious concern.5 Additionally, Nigeria is equally divided 
along ethnic and religious lines, with Muslim majority in the north and 
the bulk of Christians in the south. Due to the regulation that students 
must serve outside their home state, a lot of graduates are posted to 
regions with identifiable divergent religious and ethnic structure.  
However, the scheme has become accepted generally as a core youth 
institution in Nigeria. Since then, it has become entrenched in the 1999 
Constitution of Nigeria and its influence has spread to every parts of 
the country due to the meticulous distribution of corps members. 
Nevertheless, the NYSC scheme has been criticized by few, in several 
controversial discourses including requests for its discontinuation on 
grounds of large costs and impact.6  Conversely, supporters argue that it 
plays a substantial role in promoting inter-group harmony.7 
It is on this premise that the article seeks to examine the trends in the 
National Youth Scheme, assess the need to continue the scheme and to 
examine if there is need for change. Hence, this chapter examines how 
the scheme has influenced youth preparation for sustainable 
productivity and employment benefit as a built-up programme for 
national development. Equally, the work examines the challenges 
confronting the scheme. Therefore, the chapter is divided into seven 
sections with the first section being the introduction. The second 
                                                           4AkinboA. A,“The tool for Unity: NYSC”, assessed March 2, 2021, 
https://www.tigweb.org/youth-media/panorama/article.html?ContentID=13201. 5AkinboA. A,“The tool for Unity: NYSC”.  6OyebolaO. “Does Exposure to Other Ethnic Regions Promote National 
Integration? Evidence from Nigeria” World Bank: Development Policy Research 
Working Paper8606, 2018, p. 11. 7 Interview by Reverend Tiyayo Francis, 50, Catholic Seminary Ilorin. February 23, 
2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                              O. Ajibade and E. Tanko 
306 
 
section covers the conceptual clarification; the third section is the 
research methodology; the fourth section discusses the trends in 
Nigeria’s national youth service; the fifth section examine the 
continuity and the need for change in the National Youth Service 
Scheme; the sixth section explains the effort of NYSC at curbing its 
Challenges while the seventh section is the conclusion. 
 
Definition of terms 
The NYSC was established in 1973. The Scheme was mainly targeted at 
enhancing national cohesion and bridging the gap of intricate 
development needs with the expertise of youth graduates.8 FA Aremu9 
opine that the initiative behind the NYSC was broad and timely in its 
days of establishment. Thus, with regards to its foundational decree the 
NYSC was targeted at reconciling, reconstructing and rebuilding the 
Nigerian state after the civil war. Faced with  post-civil war challenges, 
the government of General Yakubu Gowon established the scheme to 
advance unity among the divided ethnic groups within the country.10 
The goals of the Scheme are outlined in Decree No. 51 of 16th June, 
1993, which focused on instilling discipline in Nigerian youths by 
inculcating in them, a culture of industry at work, of loyal and patriotic 
service to Nigeria in whatever circumstance they find themselves.11  It 
was thus a deliberate attempt at stimulating the patriotic spirit of the 
Nigerian youths by establishing platforms for them to be educated on 
greater ideals of national unity, cultural and social improvement 
through re-orientation of behavior/mind, common experience and 
appropriate training. 
                                                           8Innovations in Civic Participation 2010d 9 Femi Aremu, “National Youth Service Corps Programme and the Quest for 
National Integration: Issues for Policy Consideration,” Journal of Management and 
Social Sciences, (2018): 5. 10Aremu, “Policy Consideration,” 4. 11Aremu, “Policy Consideration,” 6. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Trends, Continuity and Change in the Nigeria’s National Youth Service... 
307 
 
Therefore, NYSC scheme requires all youth graduates to serve for a 
period of a year in any areas within the country outside their cultural 
background. It has four basic components: orientation, primary 
assignment, community development and winding-up/passing out 
ceremony. 
The participant in the scheme starts with a regimented three-week 
orientation course in the different states. Corps members are well-
kitted throughout the camp which is fully regimented. The Orientation 
exercise features activities like physical training, sports competitions, 
drills, and lectures on various social issues, social activities and 
language classes. They are programmed to inculcate the ideals of the 
programme, and to entrench comradeship spirit and integrate them. At 
the close of the orientation, corps members collect their posting letters 
to the “places of primary assignment” in the host state. 
Here, corps members are mandated to work for eleven months in a 
regular job, and carry out community development projects in the host 
communities. Corps members are allowed to serve in their professional 
areas. For instance, agricultural science graduates provide expertise to 
farmers on crops and pesticides, while education graduates teach in 
high schools. The real impact of the service is felt in schools, hospitals, 
government offices, private companies and non-profit organisations. 
Indeed, corps members normally collect a monthly stipend paid by the 
federal Government.12  
Trends can be explained as the “general course of prevailing tendency” 
of an event, scheme or concept.13  In other words, it connotes the 
general direction of a subject. Hence, the general direction of the 
scheme through a period of orientation, deployment, community 
service and a passing out period will be the concern of this chapter.  
                                                           12  Oral interview with OganijaMutiyat, 43years, NYSC Secretariat Kaduna, 
24/02/2021 13 “Dictionary.com,” Trends. www.dictionary.com. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                              O. Ajibade and E. Tanko 
308 
 
‘Continuity’ can be understood as an “uninterrupted duration or 
continuation”14mainly without massive changes. The idea of continuity 
in the NYSC centers around its ability to adapt to recent realities 
without necessarily changing its core value and purpose.  
On the other hand, ‘Change’ means “a general transition of something 
or phase to another state or condition.”15This implies a tilting towards a 
goal, vision, an idealised state or a movement away from present 
beliefs, attitude or condition.16 It can also refer to an unending process 
of adjustment and readaptation to circumstances.17 The scheme over 
the years has recorded positive achievements but just like any other 
system or initiative; challenges are bound to occur. Therefore, with the 
increasing number of graduates, insecurity and so on, it is essential that 
the NYSC scheme maintains its purpose (continuity) and address 
certain sets backs to the objectives it seeks to achieve. 
 
Trends in Nigeria’s National Youth Service 
The trends or pattern of the Nigerian National Youth Service is inclined 
towards four major components: orientation, primary assignment, 
community development and passing out. The scheme starts with a 
regimented three-week orientation course in different states. Corps 
members are expected to wear uniforms throughout the camp without 
permission to leave the camp. Orientation activities like physical 
training and sports competitions, drills, lectures on various social 
issues, social activities and language classes are programmed to 
inculcate the ideals of the programme, entrench comradery among 
Corps members and integrate them in to their host state. 
                                                           14“Merriam-Webster,” Continuity. Retrieved 2021, march 17. Assessed March 17, 
2021, https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/continuity. 15“IGI Global,” What is Change. Retrieved 2021, march 17. www.igi-
global.com/dictionary/chaos-and-complexity-approach-in-management/3646 16“IGI Global,” What is Change. 17“IGI Global,” What is Change. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Trends, Continuity and Change in the Nigeria’s National Youth Service... 
309 
 
At the close of the orientation, Corps members collect their posting 
letters to “places of primary assignment” in any local government in the 
host state. They serve at this position till the end of the service year, 
majorly as school teachers, staff in hospitals, government offices, 
private companies and non-profit organisations. Corps members 
normally collect monthly stipends paid by the federal government, an 
additional stipend in line of accommodation and transport from their 
employer for the service duration.18 
The third component of the scheme is community development service 
(CDS). Oneday every week, Corps members carry out community 
service projects in groups. CDS groups serve in a variety of ways such 
as environmental sanitization and beautification projects, HIV 
sensitization, extra-moral study session for students in secondary 
school, and road safety campaigns etc. Finally, at the end of the year, 
after receiving receipt of clearance letter from participants’ primary 
employers confirming satisfactory completion of their services, NYSC 
issues a certificate of national service to Corps members at the end of 
the passing out ceremony. 
The pattern of this scheme has brought about both positive changes to 
the youths and Nigeria in general while also battling certain challenges. 
The youth service programme has improved and elevated inter-ethnic 
relationship and marriages among Nigerian youth, which has 
contributed to bridging the gap among the multiple ethnic groups in 
Nigeria. The development of family ties across ethnic groups in Nigeria 
is a strong weapon for promoting unity across the nation.19  Also, the 
distribution of manpower across the country has been made possible 
through the NYSC scheme. Certain parts of the nation that used to lack 
specialised manpower previously, now enjoy these privileges since the 
                                                           18Oral interview with OganijaMutiyat, 43, NYSC Secretariat Ilorin, 12/03/2021 19Adegboyega,I.A. & David, A.F “The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) 
Scheme in Nigeria, 1973-2012: Retrospective and Prospective Analysis” Journal of 
Arts, Humanities and Diplomacy Volume 2, no. 2 (2012):15. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                              O. Ajibade and E. Tanko 
310 
 
NYSC scheme has encouraged free mobility of labour in the nation. This 
has the tendency of ensuring social and economic growth in different 
aspects of the nation.  
The youth service scheme, has contributed to sustainable livelihoods 
and wellbeing. The term ‘livelihoods’ covers a variety of ventures that 
contribute towards ‘making a living,’ enhancing quality of life and 
improving self-reliance. These include education (skills training and 
capacity building), health and social networks.20  Youth service 
volunteerism generally contributes to sustainable livelihood in multiple 
ways including in education, health and building capability assets 
(knowledge, skills and social networks).21  Such benefits accrue to 
volunteers as well as their families and communities, and are critical in 
increased access to formal employment.  
According to Beatrice Osuala, argues that the as a result of NYSC 
service, participants posted to the education sector are likely to access 
additional enlightenment resulting from exposure and linkages, 
training or employment more their peers that did serve.22  Furthermore, 
volunteer service such as establishment of day care centers, crèches 
and child-minding facilities for children, peer educators that reach out 
to communities across the nation, have created a system of self-help or 
mutual aid. Another notable area of contribution to national growth by 
the NYSC are in the likes of community engagement, social inclusion 
and cohesion.  
                                                           20 R Leigh, D.H Smith, B. J Lough, J.M Mati, C. Giesing, M.J León, D.Haski-
Leventhal, Strasburg, “State of the World’s volunteerism Report: Universal values 
for global wellbeing” In Hockenos P (Ed.). Bonn, Germany: United Nations Vol-
unteers (UNV), 2011, p. 24 see also D. Caprara; J. Mwathi; E. Obadara and H. 
Perold, “Volunteering and Civic Service in three African Regions: Contributions to 
Regional Integration, Youth Development and Peace” Brookings: Global Economic 
Development, n.d. p. 7.  21Oral interview with Osuala Beatrice, 46, Kaduna, National Youths Service Corps, 
24/03/2021. 22Oral interview with Osuala Beatrice, 46, Kaduna, National Youths Service Corps, 
24/03/2021.  
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Trends, Continuity and Change in the Nigeria’s National Youth Service... 
311 
 
Despite the achievements of the scheme, it has overtime been affected 
by growing were security among other issues. The wanton security 
crises consistently pose a challenge to participants and staff of the 
service scheme. Contrary to the mandatory proportional distributive 
system of corps member, some states are considered hot spots which 
serve as impediment to the smooth performance of the scheme.  
Security challenges seek to compromise NYSC’s smooth operation, this 
takes dynamic dimensions of kidnapping, insurgency, farmers/herder’s 
crises, communal conflict, armed banditry, electoral violence, sexual 
assault from within and outside the scheme. These aforementioned 
security lapses have continued to release psychological terror on both 
parent and volunteers (corps members).  
 
Continuity and the Need for Change in the NYSC plan 
The need for compulsory service year for youths to continue is 
unbeatable. Whatever the debates put forward by the critics of the 
Scheme, its usefulness to national growth, unity, and achievement 
cannot be quantified in terms of financial expenditure on it. This is 
actually because no amount of money spent to enhance national unity 
and integration is too big and can be equated with the massive blood 
bath arising disunity disputes and conflicts such as the Nigerian civil 
war. 
It was such priceless contributions of the NYSC over four decades that 
made it exemplary and worthy of emulation all over the world. For 
example, The Gambia youth service programme was established in 
January 1996, with technical assistance from the NYSC.23  As one of the 
pioneer youth volunteer training schemes in sub-Saharan Africa, it has 
elicited a lot of positive attentions from the outside world because of 
the history and attendant qualities of its achievements.  
                                                           23NYSC Profile Directory, 2001, p. 21. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                              O. Ajibade and E. Tanko 
312 
 
The scheme has been successful given its foundational records and 
improvement on policies of the programme. First, there is a wide 
fundamental consensus that it has fulfilled a basic institutional 
objective of facilitating social integration in post-civil war 
Nigeria.24More concretely, since its inception, the scheme has deployed 
thousands of corps members within the nation to serve in different 
sectors, including health, agriculture and education, in the public and 
corporate sectors.  
The Scheme is known to deploy youths to essential sector like 
agriculture, education, health, local government, rural development, 
including surveying, physical planning, civil engineering and rural 
industries.25  With the presidential proclamation stopping postage of 
Corps members to the banking sector in 2015, the Nigerian educational 
sector remains the major beneficiary of the Scheme as most Corps 
members are usually engaged as classroom teachers, support staff of 
tertiary institutions and first class graduates posted to universities as 
graduate assistants,26  One symbol of the programme’s success is the 
way in which the mandatory one-year national service has become a 
permanent part of the post-graduation calendar in the country. 
Nevertheless, despite the positive records, present realities shows that 
challenges continue to intensify for Nigeria’s youth service programme. 
This might be a consequence of positive influence of mass media and 
information communication technology which provides for 
comparative variants of the oldest scheme with what is obtainable 
globally where social inclusion is wholesome as well as the effect of 
disintegrating ability to gain employment in the countries. It is an 
                                                           24Oral interview with Okasanmi James, 56, Abuja, Radio correspondent and public 
analyst,  
12/03/2021 25Oral interview with Master BayowaBabalakin, 45, Lagos State University, 
Academic, 22/02/2021 26Oral interview with Master BayowaBabalakin, 45, Lagos State University, 
Academic, 22/02/2021  
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Trends, Continuity and Change in the Nigeria’s National Youth Service... 
313 
 
established fact that  the NYSC faces several challenges, top on the list 
are: The question of continuity of national service scheme attracts of 
mixed feelings.  Many Nigerians believe that NYSC has been largely 
successful but is facing serious challenges currently. To sustain 
continuity, supervising ministry needs to objectively youth service 
programme and the modalities for its institutionalization beyond mere 
national integration core value. As the world is dynamic, so is the need 
for NYSC to move at a fast phase innovatively.  
 
Challenges Facing the NYSC: Way Forward 
To ensure its continuity and effectiveness NYSC has adopted certain 
methods in curbing its challenges and they include: 
1. Insecurity: In the quest to securite the lives of staff and Corps 
members NYSC is synergising with security agencies in the 
courtesy to protect Corps members during Orintation exerises 
and the rest of the service year. 
 
2. Inadequate NYSC Camp Facilities: as Nigeria’s population 
continue to increase, there is relative increase in the number of 
graduates from the 134 polytechnics and 174 universities. The 
tertiary institutions in Nigeria are estimated to graduate about 
600,000 graduates per year.27 According to Muhammad 
Momoh, since inception of the youth service scheme not less 
than two million graduates have passed through the NYSC.28 
The scheme started with 2,364 graduates in 1973 but now over 
250,000 graduates pass through the scheme annually.29  To 
address the continued increase in the populate of Corps 
                                                           27Babalobi, B. Nigeria- Why Graduates are Unemployed and Unemployable. 
AllAfrica. Retrieved on 2021, march 17 
https://www.allafrica,com/stories/201912240618.html 28Premium Times. Two million graduates pssed through NYSC since Inception-
Official. www.premuimtimeng.com/news/157214-two-million-graduates-passed-
through-nysc-since-inception-official.html 29 Premium Times. Two Million Graduates. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                              O. Ajibade and E. Tanko 
314 
 
member, agaist lack of proportional improvent in the Camp 
facilities to accomodate them, the scheme has deviced a method 
of dividing them into batches. Hence, we have batches A, B and 
C and each batch has been sub-divided into stream one (I) and 
two (II) as the case may be. These batches were introduced in 
succession as the number of graduates continued to rise. 
 
3. Post-service unemployment:The attainment of high growth 
rates and full employment is top priorities for developed and 
developing countries. Unfortunately, Nigeria appears to record 
high unemployment rate and unimpressive growth rate. Most 
countries face challenges related to unemployment and growth, 
which can be more devastating for developing countries like 
Nigeria. Unemployment has been a lingering issue in Nigeria.30 
A large percentage of youths in Nigeria are unemployed. These 
high unemployment rate was resulted in an increase in social 
vices including prostitution, human trafficking, child labour, 
kidnapping, robbery and the recent recruitment of teenagers by 
the dreaded terrorist groups, Boko Haram and their allies in 
North Eastern Nigeria. Regrettably, the rising unemployment 
rate adversely affects economic growth because of the declining 
aggregate demand/consumption and declining domestic 
investment, which subsequently re-enforce unemployment 
problems, which by extension are due to low production. 
Hence, this implies a cutback in the employment of input 
factors including labour.31  
 
                                                           30Ogbemudia, B.I “Productivity Growth and Unemployment Rate: Nigeria” 
Focus:International Journal of Research in Applied, Natural and Social Sciences 
Vol. 6, Issue 2, (2001): 2 31 Oral interview with Odebumi Ali, 48, Economist, Lagos state University, 
12/03/2021 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Trends, Continuity and Change in the Nigeria’s National Youth Service... 
315 
 
The unprecedented rise in the rate of unemployment was 
largely traceable to the expansion in number of school 
graduates with no matching job opportunities, a freeze on 
employment in many private and public institutions as well as 
the slow disbursement of the capital budget by the Federal 
Government of Nigeria. Alerted by the danger of chronic 
unemployment, the NYSC has shifted from its sole unification 
objective to training and re-training of youths in skills 
acquisition and post service plan such as collaboration and 
linkages with financial institutions such as the Central Bank of 
Nigeria, African Development Bank and Bank of Agriculture, for 
easy access to seed capital for micro-investment by corps 
members after passing out from the scheme.  
 
4. NYSC Collaborations: Due to the increasing challenges facing 
the scheme, debates have continued to emanate on the 
continued usefulness of the scheme to the Nigeria youths. 
Hence, NYSC has continued to re-invent itself to meet the 
expectation of today’s reality. Therefore, The National Youth 
Service Corps Scheme collaborates with international, regional 
and local agencies in many areas of human and societal 
developmental necessities in achieving national and global 
relevance. The catalogue of the distinct tasks and programmes 
undertaken by corps members is unlimited. These collaborative 
efforts are known to have created series of events, forums and 
training meant to furnish participants with skills for personal 
fulfilment and effective contribution to national growth. Some 
of the projects executed by the NYSC scheme, through 
collaborative efforts with other international agencies such as 
International Institute for Sustainable Development (IISD) 
based at the Colorado State University, USA, include coaching 
the staff of NYSC in the aspect of preliminary process for 
Sustainable Development.  Similarly, John Hopkins University in 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                              O. Ajibade and E. Tanko 
316 
 
the U.S. supported by U.S Agency for International Development 
(USAID) is in collaboration with Nigeria’s NYSC in coaching the 
staff of NYSC to confront challenges on Reproductive Health 
and Good Governance using corps members as targets.32  Also 
the United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund 
(UNICEF) is known to collaborate with the NYSC in the aspect of 
HIV/AIDS prevention, care and support and reproductive 
health project using corps members as Peer Educators in 
secondary schools, while USAID Global HIV/AIDS Initiative 
Nigeria is in collaboration with the NYSC to providing 
counselling, testing and awareness on Anti-Retroviral Drugs for 
victim of HIV/AIDS.33  Moreover, Corps members are often made 
to serve as independent supervisors during poliomyelitis 
immunization across the country. They also take part in public 
awareness campaigns on immunization against deadly diseases 
like polio, measles, diphtheria, whooping cough, tuberculosis 
and the control of malaria and diarrhea, among other linkage 
with the World Health Organisation (WHO).34 NYSC has also 
taken an international dimension to its community services 
through strategic collaboration with United Nations Education 
Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) in developing 
the reading culture of Nigerians, especially in the rural areas 
through the creation of rural libraries via Corps members.35 
 
The British Council/World Bank Institute (BC/WBI) in known to have 
continued to top the list of international collaborations with the NYSC 
in the area of creating awareness on the Sustainable Development 
                                                           32NYSC, “Special Projects and Collaborations with Other Agencies”, accessed 
March 15, 2021, https://www.nysc.gov.ng/programs.html 33Oral interview by BulamaGoni, 52, School Principal, Zaria,22/02/2021 3434Oral interview by BulamaGoni, 52, School Principal, Zaria, 22/02/2021 35Oral interview with Capt. Nuhu Yaro, 45, Ogun State NYSC Orientation Camp, 
22/02/2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Trends, Continuity and Change in the Nigeria’s National Youth Service... 
317 
 
Goals (SDGS) and the National Economic Empowerment and 
Development Strategy (NEEDS) for implementation through the 
community development service (CDS) projects of corps members.36  
Given the potential of the NYSC youth resources, the Women 
Trafficking and Child Labour Eradication Foundation (WOTCLEF) is 
also in collaboration with the NYSC in the area of fighting against 
women trafficking, child labour and HIV/AIDS. It is a programme 
supported by the Department for International Development (DFID) 
department of the British High Commission and recently by 
Programme for Appropriate Technology in Health (PATH) of the 
USAID. WOTCLEF works in tandem with National Agency for protection 
against Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP); an agency created as a result 
of the impact and achievements of the WOTCLEF programme to 
implement the law on trafficking in persons in Nigeria. In the aspect of 
orientation and national awareness, the United States Embassy is using 
Corps members to campaign on waste management, environmental 
regeneration, habitant conservation, controlling pollution, and liter 
collection in partnership with some selected state government and the 
Ecological Fund.37 
 
NYSC is as well in local collaborations with the National Drug Law 
Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), Independent Corrupt Practice 
Commission (ICPC), Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC), 
Service Compact with All Nigerians (SERVICOM) and LEGAL AID. Corps 
volunteers form Drug-free clubs organise public awareness campaigns 
lectures, rallies, seminar etc. in schools, markets, motor parks and 
public squares in their host communities. To determine the NYSC 
                                                           36Oral interview with Capt. Nuhu Yaro, 45, Ogun State NYSC Orientation Camp, 
22/02/2021. 37J, E. Larsen, “Young People in West and Central Africa Trends, Priorities, 
Investments and Partners,” UNICEF West and Central Africa Regional Office, 
(2009):34. 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                              O. Ajibade and E. Tanko 
318 
 
scheme has harnessed wide international and local collaboration and 
linkages. 
 
Conclusion 
The aim of the paper was to examine how the NYSC scheme deals with 
the need to maintain continuity and change in relation to the ability of 
the scheme to remain relevant at all times without losing it sense of 
purpose or its objectives. In the body of the work, it was obvious that 
the NYSC is highly organized and deliberate in its activities; as they are 
tailored to develop the Nigerian youth for national unity and 
development. The effective harnessing of the potentials of Corps 
participants through its cardinal programmes has led to several 
identifiable achievements of the scheme overtime. However, the 
scheme has also experienced challenges in the process of fulfilling its 
mandate. Therefore, there was need to examine how NYSC will 
maintain its objectives while addressing its challenges; such inadequate 
facilities at its orientation camps, issues of security of NYSC staff and 
Corps members, post service unemployment and so on. These 
challenges to have been addressed through extensive collaborations 
with other agencies, through the systematic division of corps members 
into manageable groups for orientations and securing its personnel 
through active collaboration with security outfits within the country. 
Conclusively, the NYSC scheme has been able to adjust to present 
realities and hopefully more can be done to further accentuate there 
efforts.  
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
319 
 11 1166 66    
    Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim:  
An Overview of His Achievements as 18th 
NYSC Director-General 
 
 
Bem Japhet Audu 
and 
Maryam Hamza 
 
 
Introduction 
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) has attained tremendous 
height since the assumption of office by Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim as 
the Director General (DG) of the Scheme. This is not surprising, given 
the fact that Gen Ibrahim is a thoroughbred military administrator, who 
combines scholarship, emotional intelligence and finesse in his 
administrative duties. His experiences cut across administration in the 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                         Bem J. Audu and M. Hamza  
320 
military and civil establishments, which combination have accelerated 
the pace of the modest service rendered to the NYSC.  
Key issues that confronted the Scheme upon his assumption of office 
include the need to sustain the relevance of the NYSC in a fast-changing 
world; second, inadequate motivation and welfare for Corps Members 
and staff of the Scheme. The third was the challenge of unemployment 
among the youths after the mandatory one year national service. 
Gen Ibrahim’s track record as a visionary leader readily came to play in 
tackling these challenges. He initiated a five-point policy thrust to 
address them. These five-point policy thrust include the following:  
 
/xrhombus Sustain effective utilisation of the potentials of Corps Members 
for optimal benefit;  
/xrhombus Strengthen existing collaborations with critical stakeholders; 
/xrhombus Improve on the welfare and security of Corps Members and 
staff; 
/xrhombus Pursue a technologically driven organisation to deepen 
effective service delivery;  
/xrhombus Reinvigorate the NYSC Ventures and SAED in line with the NYSC 
Act for greater impact. 
 
It is against this backdrop that this essay examines the achievements of 
Gen Ibrahim as Director General of the NYSC, using a descriptive 
approach and evidence -- based study. The paper argues that Gen 
Ibrahim has not only transformed the NYSC, but has also repositioned it 
to benefit the Corps Members, members of staff and indeed, the nation 
at large.  
The assumption here is that leadership is a process of galvanising 
resources to attain group goals. Gen Ibrahim’s leadership style has led 
to the transformation of the NYSC by strengthening the institution, in 
terms of welfare, security, innovations and technological advancement. 
Despite these laudable achievements, there have equally been 
challenges. The Corona Virus (COVID-19) pandemic threatened to 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
321 
derail the activities of the Scheme. As an astute administrator, he rose 
to the occasion through a robust coordinated response to manage the 
pandemic that has become a reference point and template for other 
establishments in the country. 
Towards a Biography of General Ibrahim: Trends in his Academic, 
Military and Administrative Career 
Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim (Associate Professor), was born on the 13th 
July, 1967 and hails from Nasarawa Local Government Area of 
Nasarawa State. He attended the famous University of Jos where he 
obtained Bachelor's and Master's Degrees in History (1989 and 1992 
respectively), before proceeding to bag a Post-Graduate Diploma in 
Education from Tai Solar in University of Education, Ijebu Ode, Ogun 
State. Driven by his tenacity to acquire knowledge, he went on to obtain 
a Ph.D in History from the University of Abuja in 2007. 
Since his commissioning into the Nigerian Army, he has served in 
various capacities in military formations across the country. His 
appointments and postings include: The Institute of Army Education 
(Research Officer). Researched and produced Nigerian Army Journals 
and Briefs for the Nigerian Army in particular, and the Military in 
general; NYSC (Military Assistant to the Director General) 1997-1999; 
Nigerian Defence Academy (Taught 100 and 200 Levels 2000-2004; 
National Defence College (Staff Officer I Military History 2004-2009; 
Headquarters Nigerian Army School of Education (Senior Instructor) 
2009-2011; Commandant Command Secondary School, Suleja 2012-
2014; Nigerian Defence Academy (Head of Department, History and 
War Studies), 2015-2018; and Registrar, Nigerian Army University, Biu, 
Borno State(2018-2019). 
Brigadier General S Ibrahim is a scholar of high repute, who authored, 
co-authored, edited, co-edited and contributed articles/chapters to 
numerous books and academic Journals.  
Despite his tight schedule, Brig Gen S Ibrahim still devotes time to 
academic work, including the supervision of students' thesis and 
dissertations, serving as Internal and External Examiner of Master’s 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                         Bem J. Audu and M. Hamza  
322 
Students at the Ahmadu Bello University Zaria and the Nigerian 
Defence Academy, Kaduna.  
Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim was appointed 18th Director General of the 
National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), and assumed the leadership of 
the Corps on 10th May, 2019.This ushered in a transformation era for 
the Scheme which has not only been a source of immense benefit to the 
Service Corps, but the entire country in general.  
The General also had a cluster of completed courses in the military, and 
excelled in these courses.  Brig Gen Ibrahim is an Associate Professor in 
the Department of History and War Studies, Nigeria Defence Academy, 
Kaduna. These feats in both military and academic trainings, as well as 
experience in service are what marked him out as a visionary, seasoned 
and ingenious administrator.  
Since assumption of duty as the Director General of the NYSC, the 
media has been awash with bourgeoning records of his strides. His 
vision for the Scheme informed his decision to roll out a five-point 
policy thrust, geared towards utilising the potentials of the Corps 
Members maximally.  Since assumption of duty at the NYSC, his 
pragmatic leadership skill has set the Scheme on the path of 
rejuvenation and continuous relevance. Like his predecessors, he came 
up with robust and ambitious programmes, aimed at repositioning the 
Scheme as a self-sufficient and revenue -- generating government 
organisation. 
This chapter will attempt an appraisal of the delivery of these specific 
goals by the administration of Gen S Ibrahim within a short period of 
two years, in spite of the huge challenges facing the Scheme. 
Sustain effective utilisation of the potentials of Corps Members for 
optimal benefit. 
The successful conduct of the 2019 NYSC Sports and Cultural Festivals 
is a remarkable achievement of the Director General in harnessing the 
huge potentials of the Corps Members for national development. The 
NYSC Sports and Cultural Festivals serve as one of the veritable 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
323 
avenues through which the Scheme promotes national unity, cultural 
integration, as well as showcasing the abundant talents of Corps 
Members in the areas of sports and culture for gainful employment in 
the sports and film industries. The Festivals were revived by the 
present management. The grand finale was held in Abuja. Not only that, 
measures were put in place to ensure that the event holds annually. 
Another success of the NYSC Director General is the production of an 
NYSC movie titled "A Call to Service" currently undergoing post 
production work. Apart from its entertainment value, the movie is 
being packaged to create public awareness on the roles of stakeholders 
to the Scheme. These stakeholders include the three tiers of 
government, Corps employers, as well as serving and prospective Corps 
Members. Ultimately, the film will promote better understanding of the 
Scheme to the public, in addition to sensitising them on their expected 
roles to the Scheme. 
Another noteworthy achievement of the Director General is the 
establishment of NYSC National Cultural Troupe. This initiative is to 
provide a veritable platform for Corps Members to develop their 
talents in drama and cultural dance, while also eliciting public support 
towards harnessing such talents through private and corporate 
patronage. Remarkably, the NYSC Cultural Troupe will also shore up 
the revenue base of the Scheme through its activities which will be 
commercialised.  
In the same vein, the NYSC Director General has successfully organised 
a National Anti-Corruption Walk. This is in furtherance of the NYSC's 
contributions to the fight against corruption through the activities of 
the Corps Anti-Corruption and Integrity CDS Group. The programme 
involved the participation of thousands of Corps Members in the first 
ever nationwide rally/road walk organised by the Economic and 
Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), in conjunction with the Federal 
Ministry of Youth and Sports Development on 14th February, 2020. 
The Director-General personally joined the Corps Members and 
officials in Kano State for the rally, which was tagged “Nigerian Youths 
March Against Corruption.”  
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                         Bem J. Audu and M. Hamza  
324 
This action further boosted the commitment of the NYSC in eradicating 
corruption and promotion of good moral and ethical values in the 
country. 
The outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic nearly crippled the global 
socio-economic activities and did not spare the Scheme. The 2020 
Batch “A” Orientation Course was suspended barely eight days into the 
programme. However, the ever resourceful and proactive Director 
General challenged the creative ingenuity of Corps Members who 
responded appropriately to the challenge by producing non-
pharmaceutical intervention materials such as face-mask, liquid soap, 
alcohol - based hand sanitiser and donated same to the indigent 
populace across the length and breadth of the country. 
Under the leadership of Gen Ibrahim, the NYSC has also carried out 
public awareness campaigns on containment measures for the dreaded 
virus. The initiative of the Director General was later adopted by some  
public institutions. 
Another innovative contribution of the NYSC in the fight against COVID-
19 pandemic is the fabrication of foot-operated water, liquid soap and 
hand sanitizer dispenser by individual Corps Members in several 
States.  
For instance,  Babatunde Dolapo Dayo and Sebe Godspower - Abia 
State; Abdullahi Sani - Kano; Abdulsalam Abubakar and Obiefuna 
Ebuka - Kwara; Adeyanju Adeyemi, Afolabi Victor, Ogunmoye Victor - 
Oyo and Onyekwere Chiwotaoke – Zamfara and Ilori Deborah - FCT 
were among the Corps Members that fabricated and donated the 
devices. 
In addition, Corps Members, acting on the platform of Charity 
CDS/SDGs Group, have been contributing towards mitigating the effects 
of the COVID-19 at the grassroots, through the donation of food and 
other relief items to State and Local Governments, as well as indigent 
members of the society. These strategies by the Director General paved 
the way for the Scheme to obtain approval from the National Centre for 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
325 
Disease Control (NCDC) to resume full operations, especially the 
Orientation Course. 
Relatedly, several Corps Members on teaching assignment also 
contributed towards sustaining the educational progress of their 
students by adopting virtual teaching approach while schools remained 
closed as a result of the pandemic.  
As per the pursuit of a technologically-driven organisation to deepen 
effective service delivery, the Director-General recently conducted the 
first ever video conference with the 2021 Batch ‘A’ Stream 1 Corps 
Members in all the 37 Orientation Camps. It was an avenue to interface 
with thousands of Corps Members simultaneously, in line with COVID-
19 safety protocols. He has sustained this initiative by periodically 
holding virtual meetings with serving Corps Members, as well as NYSC 
State Coordinators across the country. 
It is gratifying to disclose that the Director General's interface with 
National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) has 
ensured the equipping of the NYSC Rivers Secretariat with computers 
by the agency. That singular gesture has in no small measure deepened 
the proficiency of Corps Members and staff members in the area of 
Information technology. 
The Chief Executive introduced the inscription of date of birth on the 
Certificate of National Service and Exclusion Letter, beginning with the 
2019 Batch “A” Corps Members and 2019 Batch “C” respectively. This is 
in a bid to check the manipulation of date of birth by ineligible persons 
seeking mobilisation for National Service, and it has had a positive 
effect in checkmating the falsification of records for employment, visa, 
political appointments, among others. 
Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim conceptualised and designed a state-of-the-
art ICT Office for the Scheme. The design had already been forwarded 
to the Federal Capital Development Authority (FCDA) and Federal 
Ministry of Works and Housing for approval. The cost of construction 
was appropriated in the 2021 Budget, and the Scheme is awaiting the 
release of funds for its commencement.  
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                         Bem J. Audu and M. Hamza  
326 
Other laudable efforts by Gen Ibrahim to deepen effective service 
delivery include, the development of a Five-Year Strategic Development 
Plan for the Scheme, review of the NYSC Composite  Policy Document 
and documentation of the activities of the Scheme, all aimed at 
positioning the Scheme as a research hub for academics and the 
general public. 
Under his watch, the Federal Government drafted the NYSC into the 
Presidential Steering Committee on Alternate School Programme. The 
inclusion of the Corps in the Committee is in recognition of the 
invaluable contributions of the Scheme to national development, 
particularly in the sphere of Education. 
NYSC is a repository of talents, parading the most enlightened class of 
Nigerian youths, who in forty - eight years of the Scheme's existence 
have continued to make varying degrees of multi-sectoral contributions 
to the growth and well-being of the nation.  
Therefore, the inclusion of the Scheme, whose visibility has been top-
notch in the last two years as member of the Mambila Hydro Power 
Project speaks on the high premium the Federal Government places on 
the Corps. 
Undoubtedly, membership of these august bodies have clearly 
underscored the high pedestal the Director General has taken the 
Scheme in his two years of his eventful and remarkable administration.  
In respect of improving the welfare and security of Corps Members and 
staff, in a rare demonstration of empathy and commitment to the 
welfare of Corps Members, the Director General personally visited and 
encouraged Corps Member Saidu Mohammed Adamu, who was 
admitted at the Federal Teaching Hospital, Ado-Ekiti, as a result of 
gunshot injuries that he sustained while on election duties during the 
recent bye-election held in Ekiti East Local Government Area of Ekiti 
State in March 2021.  
Similar visits were also paid to several members of the Service Corps 
on admission in hospitals in Sokoto, Katsina, Edo, Plateau, Taraba and 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
327 
Kwara States, among others, following their involvement in road traffic 
accidents. 
The Director General has also paid condolence and reassuring visits to 
the families of deceased and missing Corps Members in Plateau, 
Kaduna and Edo States. Such gestures have increased the confidence of 
Corps Members and their families in the Scheme, and have also 
engendered more zeal for patriotic service by the members of the 
Corps. 
The Director General further demonstrated his commitment to Corps 
welfare by procuring prosthetic limbs for a Corps Member in 
furtherance of his welfare policy. The sum of Thirty-two Million Naira 
(N32,000,000.00) was expended to procure the limbs for Corps 
Member, Nuraddeen Tahir from Kano State, who, along with other 
Corps Members, was involved in a road traffic accident, while on his 
way to report for Primary Assignment after the 2019 Batch ‘B’ Stream 1 
Orientation Course in Taraba State. The Corps Member, who had earlier 
lost an arm at a younger age, had the other one amputated as a result of 
the accident. The artificial limbs have already been supplied, while 
Nuraddeen was trained on the effective use of the limbs before he was 
re-united with his family. With this development, he can now 
effectively perform normal tasks such as writing with the limbs. 
The Director General relentlessly pursued the issue of increment of 
Corps Members’ allowance in the wake of approval of the new National 
Minimum Wage. His effort paid-off and the allowance of Corps 
Members was increased from Nineteen thousand, Eight hundred Naira 
(N19,800.00) to Thirty-three Thousand Naira (N33,000.00). Following 
the commencement of the payment of the new rate with effect from 
January 2020, the Director General along with the Honourable Minister 
of Youth and Sports Development and some representatives of Corps 
Members paid a “Thank-you” visit to His Excellency, the President and 
Commander-in-Chief, Armed Forces, Federal Republic of Nigeria, 
Muhammadu Buhari GCFR on 6th February, 2020 at the Presidential 
Villa, Abuja. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                         Bem J. Audu and M. Hamza  
328 
Following improvement in the security situation in the country, the 
Director General sought for, and got approval from the Federal 
Government for a return to the earlier suspended ceremonial passing-
out of Corps Members. Accordingly, the Passing-Out Ceremony of the 
2019 Batch ‘A’ Corps Members was marked with colorful parades 
nationwide, thereby increasing the visibility of the NYSC.   
The successful conduct of Orientation courses is also another 
achievement of the Director General as he oversaw the successful 
conduct of the 2019 Batch ‘B’ Streams I and II, as well as 2019 Batch ‘C’ 
Streams I and II Orientation Courses. 
As a proactive measure, NYSC Management suspended the 2020 Batch 
‘A’ Stream 1 Orientation Course just a week into the exercise as a 
deliberate effort to avert the spread of COVID-19 in the Orientation 
Camps. The commendable action equally brought to the fore his 
concern for the health and general well-being of Corps Members and 
staff. 
In recognition of his efforts at curtailing the spread of COVID-19, 
Victims Support Funds (VSF), an organisation chaired by Lt Gen TY 
Danjuma donated 60,000 RDT test kits to the Scheme. The kits are used 
for the screening of prospective Corps Members and camp officials for 
COVID-19 in NYSC Orientation camps nationwide.  
In his quest to expand the administrative structure of the Scheme, the 
Director General ensured the smooth take - off of the NYSC Area Offices, 
whose approval had earlier been secured by the immediate past 
administration of Gen Kazaure, one in each of the six geo-political zones 
of the country, headed by a Director on salary grade level 17. This feat 
has opened up more vacancies, allowing for posting of other cadre of 
staff alongside the Directors to man the Offices. The Area Offices are 
located in Kaduna (North West), Niger (North Central), Bauchi (North 
East), Enugu (South East), Osun (South West) and Delta (South South) 
have since taken off and have in no mean way boosted staff morale and 
operations of the Scheme. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
329 
In line with one of the cardinal points of his policy thrust, the Director 
General has been pursuing policies that are geared not only towards 
motivating staff, but also promoting industrial harmony in the Scheme. 
This has been aptly demonstrated through prompt payment of 
entitlements, capacity building programmes, as well as timely and 
transparent conduct of promotion examinations. During the 2020 
Promotion Exercise for instance, One Thousand Seven Hundred and 
Eighteen (1,718) out of the Two Thousand One Hundred Fifty-One 
(2,151) officers that participated in the event were elevated to the next 
grade level after meeting the requirements stipulated in the Public 
Service Rules and NYSC Conditions of Service. Additionally, the 2021 
Senior Staff Promotion Examination recorded a huge success. The 
impact of these promotion exercises has reinforced the commitment of 
staff to work for an enhanced performance. 
Meanwhile, as Management strives to enhance the motivation of staff, 
much premium is laid on the need to have a highly disciplined 
workforce. In this regard, officers who commit infractions are 
reprimanded in line with the provisions of the Public Service Rules 
(PSR). 
On strengthening the existing collaboration with critical stakeholders, 
on assumption of office, the Director General saw the dire need to 
sustain and strengthen the existing collaboration with critical 
stakeholders to garner more support and involve them in the 
management of the Scheme. He therefore embarked on advocacy visits 
to the stakeholders such as the former Head of State, General Yakubu 
Gowon, whose administration founded the Scheme. The Director-
General has had interface with the 36 State Governors, the Governor of 
the Central Bank of Nigeria, heads of Security and Anti-Corruption 
Agencies, Federal Road Safety Corps, among other stakeholders. The 
impact of this initiative is the improvement already being achieved in 
stakeholders’ support to the Scheme which is of great essence. 
The Director General also addressed a meeting of the Nigeria 
Governors’ Forum – the first of such engagement by any Chief 
Executive of the Scheme. He used the occasion of the meeting to 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                         Bem J. Audu and M. Hamza  
330 
appreciate the State Governors for their support to the Scheme, 
through various intervention projects in their respective States. He 
drew their attention to other areas that needed to be addressed, being 
part of the obligations of the State Governments to the Corps, as spelt 
out in the NYSC Act. 
Consequently the hosting of the meeting of NYSC top Management with 
the representatives of State Governments and the Federal Capital 
Territory Administration, a fallout of the meeting with the Governor's 
Forum is aimed at strengthening the collaboration with the Scheme, 
with a particular focus on the discharge of the statutory obligations of 
the States and FCT to the NYSC, as spelt out in its enabling Act. 
The impact of the meeting is profound, as several State Governments 
have made remarkable gestures in support of the Scheme. Prominent 
among them is the donation of two NYSC permanent Orientation camps 
by Edo and Anambra States, plans by the Lagos State Government to 
build a 14,000 -- capacity Orientation camp and the ongoing upgrading 
and rehabilitation of camp facilities in twenty five States, while the 
expansion of camp facilities has commenced in nine States to meet the 
5,000 -- Corps Member and 500 -- course official -- capacity camp. 
Other notable gains derived from the meeting include, constitution of 
functional NYSC State Governing Boards in seventeen States, with 
eighteen States enhancing the regular payment of state allowance to 
Corps Members, provision and upgrading of transit camps for Corps 
Members in thirty -- one states, provision of watertight security for 
Corps Members in all the States and the FCT, issuance of circulars by 
State Governments against the rejection of Corps Members, increased 
partnership with the Association of Local Governments of Nigeria 
(ALGON), provision of decent accommodation or payment of allowance 
in lieu of that to Corps Members and provision of office and residential 
accommodation by the States hosting the Headquarters of the Area 
Offices. 
In Promoting NYSC/Media relations, the Director General has since 
assumption of duty, strived to strengthen the cordial relations the 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
331 
Scheme enjoys with the Media. This, he kick-started with his maiden 
chat with Editors, Bureau Chiefs and Youth Correspondents of various 
Media Organisations in the country on 15th August, 2019. Brig Gen S 
Ibrahim also paid courtesy visits to Media offices in Abuja, including 
the Headquarters of the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA), News 
Agency of Nigeria (NAN), Media Trust Limited and Leadership Group 
Limited.  Similar visits with Director-General’s directive were also 
made to Lagos Head Offices of The Punch, Daily Sun, The Nation 
newspapers, among others. He has consistently maintained his Media-
friendly posture, thereby attracting wider publicity for the Scheme’s 
activities.  
To deepen and sustain the wide publicity that the Scheme has enjoyed, 
he has resuscitated the production and airing of the NYSC Half Hour 
programme on NTA International Channel 251 and Armed Forces 
Radio FM.  So far, plans have reached an advanced stage to establish the 
first ever NYSC FM Radio that will be useful to adequately drive the 
publicity efforts of the Scheme and showcase its activities to Nigerians 
and the entire world. 
The Director-General in furtherance of his transparent, inspirational 
and all-inclusive style of administration paid visits to some former 
Chief Executives of the Scheme. The gesture was aimed at appreciating 
their respective contributions to the development of Scheme when they 
were in the saddle of leadership, and also tap into their vast wealth of 
experience. The former Chief Executives appreciated the initiative as it 
was the first ever visit paid simultaneously to them. 
The maiden meeting with the Registrars of some Foreign Corps 
Producing Institutions was also held, having, uncovered the fraudulent 
activities of some tertiary institutions in Africa, especially in the West 
Africa sub region which have the penchant to issue questionable 
academic certificates to unqualified persons, who in turn present same 
to get mobilised for national service. The Director-General has 
commenced an aggressive fight against this menace which has earned 
him the commendation of the President, His Excellency Muhammadu 
Buhari GCFR, during his address at the 2018/2019 President's NYSC 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                         Bem J. Audu and M. Hamza  
332 
Honours Award Ceremony. Similar commendations were given to him 
by a broad spectrum of vice chancellors of some indigenous and foreign 
institutions, including the Honourable Minister of Education. 
In addition to hosting the meeting with the Registrars, internal 
mechanisms have been put in place for easier detection of unqualified 
persons attempting to present themselves for mobilisation for service.  
As a result of the stance of Management, some of the foreign 
institutions are now volunteering to alert NYSC of suspected fraudulent 
practices by their students. Interestingly, out of over twenty thousand 
(20,000) persons who registered online as foreign-trained prospective 
Corps Members of the 2019 Batch ‘C’ Service Year, only three thousand, 
four hundred and twenty (3,420) turned up for the pre-mobilisation 
physical screening of their credentials.  
To serve as a deterrent to others, sixty-five (65) unqualified persons 
arrested during the 2019 Batch ‘B’ Stream II Orientation Course in 
camps across the country are being prosecuted with some convictions 
already secured. These steps taken by Management have helped to 
create national awareness, especially on the need for parents and 
guardians to check the accreditation status of the institutions attended 
by their wards, and also monitor their academic progress. 
The bold move by the Director General in sanitising the mobilisation 
process will also ensure that only well trained and competent persons 
occupy critical positions that will fast-track the development of the 
country.  
The Director-General has equally hosted a national sensitisation 
programme on the NYSC Act on 24th July, 2019 in Abuja. Prior to this, it 
was clear that many Nigerians were not aware of the provisions of the 
Act – a situation that has led to avoidable infractions. With the 
sensitisation, which is still on-going, organisations and individuals are 
now having better understanding of their obligations to the Scheme. In 
particular, cases of evasion and abscondment from Service, especially 
by the foreign-trained Nigerian graduates, are expected to reduce 
drastically.  
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
333 
Broadly looking at the reinvigoration of the NYSC ventures and skill 
acquisition and entrepreneurship development programme in line with 
NYSC Act for greater impact, the Director General has been speaking 
passionately about his desire to make the Skill Acquisition and 
Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) Programme and NYSC 
Ventures Management Departments more functional. 
 
To match words with actions, he has taken several steps towards 
reinvigorating the SAED programme, including, but not limited to the 
following: 
• Renewal of commitment by the NYSC and Bank of Industry 
towards the resuscitation of empowerment of Corps 
entrepreneurs with business loans under the BOI-NYSC 
Graduate Empowerment Fund. 
• Intensive monitoring of GEF beneficiaries. 
• New collaboration with NIRSAL Microfinance Bank on 
empowerment of Corps entrepreneurs. 
• New partnership with Unity Bank Plc on a programme named 
‘Allawee’ aimed at empowering Corps members.  
• Collaboration with British-American Tobacco Foundation on 
empowerment of Corps Members with agricultural skills and 
business trainings, farm internship, mentoring and farm input 
supplies. 
• Hosting of the 2020 NYSC SAED Stakeholders meeting aimed at 
reviewing the programme implementation strategies, as well as 
strengthening of existing partnerships and exploring new ones 
for further technical and material support. 
• Pursuing the completion of the North West Skill Acquisition 
Centre in Kazaure, Jigawa State, this is now at advanced stage. 
• Commencement of work on the North Central Skill Acquisition 
Centre in Keffi, Nasarawa State. 
• Research-based collaboration with OAU-NACETEM sponsored 
by a Canadian Agency, International Development Research 
Centre on evaluation of the impact of SAED and reinvigorating 
it for greater impact. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                         Bem J. Audu and M. Hamza  
334 
• Resuscitation of NYSC Water Factory and Bakery at NYSC 
Orientation Camp Kubwa. The NYSC Water Factory and Bakery 
were revived and revitalised by the Director-General 
immediately he assumed office, and these two ventures are now 
producing at full capacity. The water and bread produced in 
these ventures are being supplied to the FCT, Nasarawa, Kogi, 
Kaduna and Niger State Orientation camps and the general 
public. These ventures now generate revenue to the Scheme 
and help Corps Members acquire skills too. 
• Purchase of modern farm equipment for the four NYSC 
functional farms namely, NYSC Farm Kwali in FCT, Saminaka, 
Kebbi State, Dungulbi, Bauchi State and Iseyin Oyo State. Each 
of these farms now has tractors and other basic farm 
equipment. 
• The consistent support in terms of funding and staffing has 
increased the hectares under cultivation from 60 hectares to 
160 hectares during the 2020 farming season. 
• Reclaiming of NYSC farmland at Ezillo which hitherto was 
collected by the Ebonyi State Government. Immediately after 
the reclaiming, tractor was purchased for farming operations at 
the Ezillo Farm. 
• The structure of Ventures Management Department was 
expanded which gave room for the promotion of staff, and has 
in no mean way motivated the staff members. 
• Registration of the two NYSC Garment Factories, Water Factory 
and Bakery with the Corporate Affairs Commission. Arising 
from the last Meeting of the NYSC Top Management with 
Representatives of State Governments, the Governors of Edo 
and Ekiti States announced the donation of land for the sitting 
of two garment factories which will boost the production of 
Corps Members’ kit items. 
• Developing partnership with relevant institutions such as 
International Institute for Tropical Agriculture (IITA), National 
Agricultural Land Development Agency (NALDA), NCRI, NCAM, 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
335 
ARMTI, NCAC etc. to enhance the productivity of NYSC 
Farms/Ventures among others. 
• Resuscitation of moribund NYSC Feedmill, Lagos. The mill is 
now ready to start production of animal feeds. 
• Construction of new poultry pen at NYSC farm Kwali, FCT. 
• The Director General has met with the State Governors and 
other stakeholders with a view to securing land in all the States 
for agricultural production. 
 
In addition to the above, twelve States have opened up their skills 
centres for the post camp training of Corps Members to further 
strengthen the skills and entrepreneurship training acquired in camp. 
• The tremendous support given by the Director General has 
repositioned all the NYSC Ventures for greater revenue 
generation for the Scheme.  
 
Interestingly, the Scheme paid into the national coffers over Two 
Hundred and Eighty Million Naira (N280,000,000.00) as internally 
generated revenue which is unprecedented in the annals of the Scheme. 
The Director General who has introduced the use of name tags by every 
member of staff for easy identification, equally in an unprecedented 
move sought the help of the Federal Government in tackling the 
ecological challenges confronting some of the NYSC Orientation camps. 
Government granted the request through the deployment of Ecological 
Fund to tackle the menace. Eight camps have been approved as 
beneficiaries in the first phase of the intervention. Already, work is 
ongoing in Cross River, Taraba, FCT and Nasarawa Orientation camps.  
 
In recognition of his service to the nation, Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim 
who has institutionalised Farewell Parade for outgoing NYSC Chief 
Executives - a novelty, has received numerous commendations and 
awards which include:  
• Chief of Army Staff Award as the Overall Best Participant for 
2013 NAEC Executive Management Course. 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                         Bem J. Audu and M. Hamza  
336 
• Nigerian Institute of Public Relations (NIPR) Special 
Recognition Award 2014. 
• Award for Distinguished Professional Contributions to Public 
Service/Fellowship (FCAI) by Institute of Corporate 
Administration. 
• Professional National Award (Historical Society of Nigeria HSN) 
and 
• Chief of Army Staff Commendation Letter 2018.  
 
Conclusion 
The above discourse has given an insight on the achievements of 
General Shuaibu Ibrahim since becoming the Director General of the 
National Youth Service Corps. Within the last two years, the Scheme has 
made some giant strides owing to the pursuit of strict implementation 
of the Director General’s five-point policy thrust. Therefore, the 
contributions of Brig Gen Ibrahim to the NYSC since his ascension into 
office cannot be overemphasised. These contributions are indeed 
remarkable, and will undoubtedly stand the test of time, having set the 
Scheme on growth trajectory and continuous relevance.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
337 
Bibliography 
 
A. J. Afolayan et al. Selected Speeches and Strides of the 18th NYSC 
Director General: Brigadier General S. Ibrahim, Abuja: NYSC 
National Directorate Headquarters, 2020. 
Achebe C. The Trouble with Nigeria, Enugu: Fourth Dimension 
Publishers, 1998. 
Appadorai A, The Substance of Politics, London: Oxford University 
Press, 2004. 
Audu B.J. “Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim and the Reinvigoration of NYSC,” 
in C.C.C. Osakwe et al (eds.) War, Society and Leadership in 
Nigeria: Essays in Honour of Brigadier General Shuaibu 
Ibrahim, Kaduna: Nigerian Defence Academy Press. 
Economic Confidential, NYSC: Rebranding for Revenue Generation, 
Youth Empowerment-Brig. Shuaib, D.G”, Vol. 13 (154), July, 
2020. 
Gen. Ibrahim attended NAEC (Nigerian Army Education Corps), Young 
Officers Course 1994; Infantry (INF) Young Officers Course 
1996; Training Development Advisers Course (TDA) 2004; and 
NAEC Officers’ Executive Management Course, 2013. Cited in 
The Nation, “NYSC: As a Patriot Assumes Duty”, February 19, 
2019.  
Klingborg D.J. “Leadership and Professional Development,” in Journal of 
Veterinary Medical Education, Davis: University of California, 
2006. 
Media Evaluation of Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim, 2020. 
NYSC National Directorate Headquarters, Selected Speeches and 
Strides of the 18th NYSC Director General, Compiled May 2020, 
by the Special Duties Department. 
NYSC News in A Journal of NYSC Directorate Headquarters, Abuja: 
NYSC Publication. 
NYSC. Media Assessment  
 
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND C.D.S                                         Bem J. Audu and M. Hamza  
338 
Sharma, M.K. and S. Jain. “Leadership Management: Principles, Models 
and Theories,” in Global Journal of Management and Business 
Studies. ISSBN 2248-9878 Volume 3, Number 3, 2013. 
 
Oral Interview 
 
Interviews with NYSC Coordinator   
Jibril Umar, Head of Ventures Kubwa, 50+, Interviewed at Kubwa 
Abuja, 15/3/21 
Emeka -- Rems Mgbemena, Deputy Director and Head, Publications 
Division, Press and Public Relations Unit, NYSC National 
Directorate Headquarters, Abuja, 50+, Interviewed at Abuja, 
15/3/21  
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Aba, A. A., 45, 50, 
Abba, A., 89, 
Abdulrahman, D. A., 40, 
Abuyada, R., 4, 13, 
Adams, S., 97, 116, 
Addis Ababa, 255, 
Adedeji, A., 192, 193, 209, 
Adeejat-Kubra, 195, 210, 
Adegoke, S., 136, 
Adekeye, O., 193, 185, 235, 239, 247,
Adetiloye, D., 98, 116, 
Adetunji, O., 62, 73, 
Adindu, C., 108, 117, 
Africa, I., 256, 285, 303, 
African Union, 255, 
Agbi, A., 126, 
Akande, J. O., 16, 38, 
Akinkuotu, E., 60, 71, 
Akinniyi, P. F., 53, 
Akume, J. O., 16, 38, 
Alawiye-Adams, A. A., 123, 141, 
alcoholism, 168, 230, 
Aluko, O., 67, 73, 
Anigbo, E., 129, 130, 
Anthony, N. E., 213, 217, 219, 221, 
227, 
Anuforo, E., 189, 210, 
Anumudu, C. N., 125, 141, 
Arabi, M., 5, 
Arigbo, P., 141, 288, 301, 
armed banditry, 126, 
conflict, 199, 
robbery, 168, 
Attah, B., 50, 
Audu, B. J., 75, 88, 319, 337, 
Ayinde, A. F., 88, 
Ayinla, M. A., 126, 142, 
Babalobi, B., 313, 
Babatunde, A., 123, 141, 
Bakari, U., 167, 182, 229, 
Balon, J., 68, 70, 
banditry, 47, 
Bazza, M. B., 50, 
Benson, A., 134, 135, 
Bilak, A., 191, 210, 
Bilal, S., 166, 
Billings, W. D., 252, 
biodiversity, 269, 
Boko Haram, 50, 51, 56, 190, 197, 
201, 207, 
Bonye, S. Z., 15, 38, 
Buhari, M., 271, 331, 
Calabar, 108, 
340
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

CBT, 244, 
Chan, C. G., 3, 13, 
child labour, 314, 
Cilliears, P., 183, 245, 
civil war, 91, 140, 270, 304, 
climate change, 255, 268, 271, 
COMEVID, 33, 
Comolli, v, 51, 
conflict resolution, 75, 
consumption, 69, 
corona virus, 47, 48, 320, 
corpreneurship, 96, 
corruption, 44, 66, 69, 162, 
COVID-19, 85, 86, 320, 324, 
cultism, 168, 230, 
Dayo, B. D., 324, 
deforestation, 1, 213, 256, 262, 266, 
Denmark, 
desertification, 213, 256, 257, 258, 
260, 261, 265, 266, 269, 
disaster management, 191, 213, 
risk assessment, 220,
Driscoll, B., 76, 
drug abuse, 126, 
economic recovery, 97, 
Edward, K., 54, 62, 63, 72, 
Egwu, K., 159, 
Elemure, V ., 270, 302, 
environmental impact, 217, 
Enegwea, G., 149, 158, 165, 227, 
entrepreneurship, 96, 97, 99, 100, 
109, 
European Union, 214, 
Ezombi, B., 51, 
Elder, A. C., 3, 13, 
EFCC, 7, 57, 60, 61, 65, 66, 67, 69, 
70, 317, 323, 
FAO, 259, 
FEMA, 216, 
Fletcher, A. C., 13, 
Fuedman, J., 5, 13, 
gas flaring, 264, 
Gates, D. M., 252, 
Germany, 53, 
Ghana, 53, 54, 
Glantz, M. H., 258, 
globalization, 123, 
Gobir, A. A., 248, 
Gowon, Y ., 91, 192, 
Guterres, A., 255, 
Haladu, 176, 238, 
Halgin, P. R., 182, 232, 244, 
Hamza, M., 319, 
Hamza, S., 202, 203, 211, 
HIV/AIDS, 95, 118, 121, 134, 151, 
285, 288, 309, 
Houghton, R. A., 268, 
human trafficking, 126, 314, 
Ibrahim, S., 319, 321, 322, 323, 325, 
326, 336, 337, 
ICPC, 57, 65, 96, 
Idowu, A., 186, 235, 248, 
Ikenna, F. O., 118, 
Ikpanor, E. T., 75, 
Ikuteyijo, L., 54, 63, 72, 
Iliyasu, A., 224, 226, 227, 
ILO, 99, 100, 103, 106, 116, 
Imdad, A., 133, 
immunization, 146, 
India, 53, 
industrialization, 261, 264, 
Ingrassia, P. L., 214, 227, 
Innocent, P., 51, 
Inuwa, S. T., 149, 165, 
Ishaq, A., 162, 165, 
Ishaq, S. B., 212, 
Jack, J., 147, 148, 165, 
Jackson, R., 52, 
job-training, 20, 150, 
Johnson, P. D., 278, 279, 
Jonathan, G. E., 51, 
Joseph, K. A., 91, 
Kabiru, S., 194, 
Kaza, E. K., 88, 
Kemp, E., 207, 210, 
Kenya, 252, 255, 
kidnapping, 47, 126, 168, 
Kwajafa, 17, 233, 
341
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

land degradation, 213, 
leadership, 10, 94, 331, 
Leigh, R., 310, 
Libya, 54, 
Lindsay, B. R., 221, 228, 248, 
Lough, B. J., 310, 
Madu, M.E.U, 125, 
Magu, I., 60, 
Maiduguri, 190, 203, 
Matthew, J., 282, 
McGrew-Hill, 182, 232, 244, 
MDG, 86, 119, 124, 
Medugu, N. I., 257, 
Mfon, P., 261, 
mobilization, 30, 
Mohammed, A., 33, 36, 94, 116, 
152, 165,
money laundering Act, 57, 
Moutinho, P., 268, 
Muoka, N., 131, 132, 140, 
Murtala, B., 201, 210, 
Murtala, M. L., 143, 
Musa, A., 123, 141, 223, 227, 
Musa, N., 206, 211, 
NACA, 134, 
NAFDAC, 7, 147, 169, 176, 238, 
Nairobi, 252, 258, 
NAPTIP, 317, 
Nasidi, N. A., 1, 13, 51, 
national deployment, 120, 
NBTE, 111, 
NCDC, 325, 
NDLEA, 7, 22, 147, 152, 169, 176, 
230, 238, 317, 
NEMA, 7, 22, 65, 160, 189, 209, 
214, 215, 222, 223, 226, 
NERA, 216, 
NESREA, 64, 
NIDA, 171, 234, 
Nigerian Defence Academy, 321, 
NIMASA, 220,
NIRSAL, 333, 
NITDA, 82, 83, 
Nnoli, O., 162, 165, 
NPHDA, 22, 137, 
Nta, A. J., 189, 
Ntukogu, O. T., 162, 165, 
Nwaodu, N., 57, 72,
Nwolise, O.B.C., 75, 89, 
O'Connell, M. E., 181, 187, 243, 
249, 
Ocha, T., 191, 
Odoh, P., 278, 
Ogbemudia, B. I., 314, 
Ogbonna, R. S., 15, 
Ohagenyi, M., 56, 72, 
Ohwigbe, D., 136, 137, 
Okafor, C., 71, 142, 
Oke, J., 117, 
Okosiemena, G., 124, 
Okpeh, O. O., 76, 89, 
Okun, J., 124, 138, 
Oliver, O., 74, 
Olmsted, C. E., 252, 
Ologunro, K., 120, 
Olubo, P. C., 278, 
Onnumah, A. C., 89, 
Onwere, C., 280, 300, 
Onyema, E., 60, 71, 
orientation course, 324, 328, 
Osuala, B., 310, 
Owosina, M. M., 196, 210, 
Packiam, S. M., 269, 
Payton, R. L., 283, 286, 301, 
Peter, U., 266, 
Platt, R. B., 252, 
poverty, 197, 287, 
eradication, 15, 123, 
primary assignment, 7, 18, 47, 56, 
94, 95, 119, 151, 307, 
Princewill, O. O., 297, 301, 
public sensitization, 128, 
Rabie, M. A., 14, 
raping, 168, 
342
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Razak, B., 61, 71, 
reconciliation, 17, 91, 
reconstruction, 17, 19, 
reforestation, 259, 260, 
rehabilitation, 17, 91, 128, 184, 223, 
243, 
Rodney, W., 76, 89, 
Russia, 53, 
Sanda, A. O., 304, 
Sanisidi, M., 199, 200, 203, 204, 
205, 210, 
Saudi, Arabia, 174, 
SDG, 140, 
sedimentation, 270, 
sexual victimization, 200, 
violence, 200, 
Sherry, 181, 
Silverman, 234, 
Smith, M. K., 16, 38, 
Soares, J., 6, 14, 
Solomon, M., 40, 
Stockhon Declaration, 252, 
Straus, S., 76, 89, 
Tanko, E., 290, 306, 303, 
Tennant, F., 250, 
terrorism 126, 
Tijani, M., 159, 161, 166, 
Tijani, S. A., 126, 142, 
Transparency International, 73, 
Udeaja, R. A., 75, 89, 
Umar, A., 125, 
UNCHR, 209, 
UNDP, 147, 
unemployment, 109, 
UNEP, 252, 253, 
UNESCO, 122, 147, 316, 
UNGA, 196, 253, 
UNICEF, 22, 34, 113, 122, 147, 217, 
UNMC, 22, 34, 288, 
UNO, 118, 122, 144, 
urbanization, 264, 
USA, 53, 315, 316, 
USAID, 147, 
Usman, S. A., 251, 
Usman, Y . B., 89, 
Van, G. C., 258, 
Vaugham, M. G., 172, 188, 234, 
250, 
volunteerism, 296, 
WAI, 56, 
Wali, R. M., 39, 
WAP, 86, 
WHO, 147, 168, 230, 316, 
Williams, 253, 
working capital, 110, 
World Bank, 113, 
WOTCLEF, 317, 
WTO, 173, 188, 235, 250, 
Yahana, G., 174, 
Yahaya, I., 265, 
Zamfara, 265,  
343
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT