NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE 
CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020: 
EMERGENCE, DEVELOPMENT AND 
ACHIEVEMENTS
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE 
CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020: 
EMERGENCE, DEVELOPMENT AND 
ACHIEVEMENTS
Edited By
Okpeh O. Okpeh, Jr.
Professor of History and International Studies, Federal 
University of Lafia
&
Chris. B.N. Ogbogbo
Professor of History, University of Ibadan
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The National Youth Service Corps Scheme, 1973 - 2020: 
Emergence, Development and Achievements
© O. O. Okpeh & C.B.N. Ogbogbo, 2021
ISBN: 978-978-993-414-5
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
No part of this publication may be reproduced  retained or 
transmitted in any form or by any means  electronic or 
mechanical, including photocopy, recording or any form of 
information storage or retrieval system, without the prior 
written permission of the copyright owners..
Printed in Nigeria by: Sam-Adex Printers
,
,
iv
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

DEDICATION
To
All the founding fathers of the NYSC Scheme
v
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

List of Tables and Figures
Fig. 1: Nigeria's Six Geopolitical Zones 1
Fig. 2: Physical Features of Nigeria 5
Fig. 3: Map of Nigeria showing some of the ethnic groups 7
Fig. 4: General Yakubu Gowon 14
Table 1: Showing Typologies of National Service Globally 22
Table 2: Showing Selected Cases of National Service Programs 25
Fig. 5.1: Prof. Adebayo Adedeji  59
Fig. 5.2: Col. Ahmadu Ali 59
Fig. 6: Brig. Gen. Shuaibu Ibrahim, Director –General NYSC 110
Fig. 7: A Nigerian Army Officer inspecting an NYSC 
Quarter Guard 119
Fig. 8: Regimented and Disciplined Corps Members on 
Parade Ground 122
Fig. 9: Corps Members Training at the Orientation Camp 125
Table 3: List of Informants 157
Table 4: Interviews 187
Table 5: CDS Groups, their Purposes and Activities 211-212
Fig. 10: Corpers Offering Medical Services 241
Table 7: Showing Organisations and the Monetary Value 
of Support to Corpse Members Under SAED 295
Fig. 11: General Yakubu Gowon (rtd), GCFR, PhD 310
Fig. 12: Professor Adebayo Adedeji 313
Table 9: Directors General of the NYSC and their 
Contributions to the Scheme, 1973-2020     315-317
Fig. 13: Handingover Ceremony from 
Maj. Gen. Kazaure to Brig. Gen. Ibrahim, May 2019   327
Fig. 14: Past Directors General of NYSC, 1973 - Date 330-332
Table 10: Number of Winners of President's NYSC 
Honour's Award Since 1973/1974 Service Year 340-341
Fig. 15.1: Serving Corps Member in NYSC Khak 
Uniform Circa 2020   362
Fig. 15.2: Serving Corps Member in NYSC Crested 
Vest Circa 2020  362
Table 6: NYSC CDS, Purpose and Activities 244-245
Table 8: Oral Interviews 304
vi
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Fig. 15: Corps members in NYSC crested vest circa 1990
 (Note the deep green colour as opposed to the one above) 363
Fig. 16.1: NYSC Crest  364
Fig. 16.2: NYSC Face Cap 364
Fig. 17: First NYSC Face Cap 365
Fig. 18: NYSC Jungle Boot 366
Fig. 19: NYSC Belt 367
Fig. 20: Regular Camp Uniform 369
Fig. 21: NYSC Swearing- in-Ceremony 370
Fig. 22: Man- O- War activities at Benue State 
Orientation Camp, 2016 Batch B 371
Fig. 22.1:  Passing out parade at Ilorin Kwara State 
circa 1990 (Note the colour difference with the 
current khaki uniform below) 372
Fig. 22.2: Passing out parade 372
Fig.23.1: Female corps members' in Skirt instead of trousers 381
Fig. 23.2: Female Muslim corps members in 
white shoulder-length hijab 381
Fig. 24: Some Female Corps Members protesting on the 
platform of “Serve with Skirt Movement” 383
Fig. 25: Banner showing NYSC Correct Dress Code and 
Examples of Don'ts 385
Fig.26.1: Female Corps members in khaki skirts instead 
of trousers 386
Fig. 26.2: Slim-fit khaki Trouser 386
Fig. 26.3: Three-quarter overall khaki Trouser 386
Fig.26. 4: Slim-fit khaki Trouser 387
Fig. 26.5: Three-quarter khaki trouser 387
Fig. 27:  An Inter-platoon Match Past Competition 
in Abia state, 2016  410
Fig. 28:  Lagos Camp Iyana-Ipaja Inter-Platoon Football 
Competition  411
Fig. 29: A Female Corps Member on Course 
Man O' War Rope climbing drill in 7/7full Regalia 413
Fig. 30: Carnival in Adamawa Camp in Damare Girie  416
Fig. 31: NYSC Katsina Band playing at an NYSC function 
in 2016  419
vii
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Table 11: Showing Orientation Camps and their Locations 
Nationwide  445
Table 12: National Youth Service Corps 448
Table 13: Deployment of Corps Members in Various    
Elections in 2008 504
Table 14: Deployment of Corps Members in Various 
Elections in 2009  505
Fig. 32: Corps Members on Election Duties in Different 
Parts of the Country  508
Fig. 33: The International Youth Day Celebrations 
Organised by the NYSC Kubwa Camp, 2017  568
Fig. 34.1: The NYSC Band Performing at a Function, 2019  572
Fig. 34.2: The NYSC Band Performing at a Function, 2019  572
Fig. 35: A Cross-Section of Corps Members at a Skills and 
Enterprenuership Workshop, 2020 583
Fig. 36: Corps Members in a Cultural Day Outing, 2020  587
Fig. 37: Pictures of the GNYSS Corps Members on Parade 689
Fig. 38: The GNYSS Corps Members on Parade at the Prade 
Ground in the Orientation Camp 691
Table 15: Areas of GNYSS Engagement  696
Table 16: Specializations in the German Zilvidienst 705
viii
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

TABLE OF CONTENTS
Dedication v
List of Tables and Figures vi
Table of Contents ix
Notes on Contributors xiii
Foreword xv
Introduction xviii
SECTION ONE: BACKGROUND
Chapter One
The Nigerian Background
CBN Ogbogbo 3
Chapter Two
The Idea of National Service: Global Perspectives
Okpeh Okpeh Jnr 17
Chapter Three
The Establishment of the National Youth
Service Corps Scheme in Nigeria
Jacinta Chiamaka Nwaka 45
Chapter Four
Organisational Structure of the NYSC
Fidelis Egbe 75
SECTION TWO: STRUCTURE POLICIES AND 
PROGRAMMES
Chapter Five
The Army and the Character of NYSC
Bem Japhet Audu 117
ix
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Chapter Six
NYSC and the Policy of Posting and Primary Assignments  
Patrick Ukase 133
Chapter Seven
Programmes and Activities of National 
Youth Service Corps
Ayodele Samuel Abolorunde 161
Chapter Eight
Groups and Societies in the NYSC Scheme  
Umar Aminu Yandaki 193
Chapter Nine
The NYSC Community Development Service:
Its Nature and Impact
Pascal Onumonu 239
SECTION THREE: GROWTH DEVELOPMENT 
AND TRENDS
Chapter Ten
Transformations in NYSC
David Imbua 271
Chapter Eleven
Leadership and the Growth of NYSC since 1973
Okpeh O. Okpeh, Jr.,
Godwin O. Odeh 307
Chapter Twelve
Trends in National Youth Service Corps Uniform, 
1973-2020
Zara Emmanuel Kwaghe 351
x
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Chapter Thirteen
NYSC and Sports/Games Activities in  and Sports/Games 
Activities in Nigeria Since 1973
Oladipo, Folusho Adewumi 395
Chapter Fourteen
The Nature and Impact of National Youth
Service Corps Orientation Camps
Kenneth T. Azaigba 433
SECTION FOUR: ACHIEVEMENTS AND 
CONTRIBUTIONS TO NATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT
Chapter Fifteen
The NYSC and National Integration in Nigeria,
1973-2020
Evelyn Onwaniba 475
Chapter Sixteen
NYSC and National Elections in Nigeria
Albert Onobhayedo 495
Chapter Seventeen 
NYSC and Manpower Development in Nigeria,
1973-2019
Olisa Muojama 523
Chapter Eighteen
The NYSC and Youth Development in Nigeria
Maryam Hamza 561
Chapter Nineteen
National Youth Service Corps and the Labour
Market
Emma-Lawson Hassan 597
xi
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

SECTION FOUR: CHALLENGES AND PROSPECTS
Chapter Twenty
The Transmuting Challenges of the National
Youth Service Corps Scheme
Chris S. Orngu 639
Chapter Twenty-One
The NYSC Beyond the Twenty-first Century
Godwin O. Odeh 675
Index 731
xii
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Notes on Contributors
Editors
Ogbogbo, Christopher B.N. is a Professor of History at the 
University of Ibadan and the current Director of Research, 
Nigerian Army Resource Centre, Abuja. He is currently the Vice 
–President, Association of African Historians.
Okpeh, O. Okpeh, is a Professor of History in Department of 
History and International Studies, Federal University of Lafia 
and current President, Historical Society of Nigeria.
Chapter Authors
Dr Abolorunde, Ayodele is a lecturer at the Department of 
History, University of Ibadan, Ibadan. 
Dr Audu, Bem is of the Department of History and War Studies, 
Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna, Nigeria.
Dr Azaigba, T. Kenneth is an Associate Professor in the 
Department of History and International Studies, Federal 
University Dutsin-Ma, Katsina State.
Dr Egbe, Fidelis is a Lecturer Department of History, Veritas 
University Abuja.
Emma-Lawson Hassan, Department of history and Diplomatic 
Studies, Federal University Wukari, Taraba State, Nigeria.
Dr Hamza, Maryam lectures at the Department of History and 
War Studies, Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna, Kaduna 
State. 
xiii
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Dr Kwaghe Zara is an Associate Professor in History at the 
Department of History and International Studies, Federal 
University Lafia.
Dr Imbua, David is an Associate Professor in History at the 
University of Calabar.
Dr Muojama, Olisa is a Senior Lecturer in the Department of 
History, University of Ibadan.
Dr Nwaka, Jacintha Chiamaka, is an Associate Professor in the 
Department of History and International Studies, University of 
Benin, Benin, Nigeria.
Dr Odey, Godwin is in the Department of History, Sokoto State 
University, Sokoto.
Dr Onobhayedo, Albert is in the Department of History and 
International Studies, University of Benin, Benin, Nigeria.
Onwaniban, Evelyn is a Research Fellow with the Nigerian 
Army Resource Centre, Abuja.
Dr Onumonu, P. Ugo is in the Department of History, Adeleke 
University, Iwo.
 
Oladipo, Folusho Adewumi is of the Department of History, 
Bowen University, Iwo.
Dr Orngu, Chris is a Senior Lecturer in the Department of 
History, Benue State University, Makurdi.
Dr Ukase, Patrick is an Associate Professor in the Department of 
History, Kogi State University, Akungba, Nigeria.
Yandaki, Umar is of Uthman Dan Fodio University, Sokoto.
xiv
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

FOREWORD
The National Youth Service Corps is undoubtedly one of the 
most enduring social institutions in Nigeria. Emerging shortly 
after the Nigeria Civil War, the Scheme was a child of necessity 
that was established to support post-civil war reconstruction 
efforts and particularly to promote unity and national 
integration. In establishing the Scheme, General Yakubu Gowon 
(rtd) quite frankly acknowledged the critical place of youths in 
the development process. His unassailable judgment in 
identifying the youth as agents of social change in post-civil war 
Nigeria is worthy of commendation. While we acknowledge the 
fact that the NYSC has had its challenges in the course of its 
development, as is the case with other institutions, we must add 
that these pale into insignificance when we objectively scope, 
dimension and benchmark its contributions to national 
development in its forty eight years of existence.
Some examples of this should suffice here for illustrative 
purposes. In addition to its exemplary role in promoting unity 
and national integration over the decades, the Scheme has been 
applauded for the development of education, healthcare 
delivery and social infrastructure provisioning across the 
country, through its primary assignment deployment and its 
community development service. Furthermore, the positive 
contributions of the NYSC in the credible conduct of elections in 
the country and the active participation of Corps members in 
national programs like population census, immunization 
exercise, HIV/AIDS awareness, prevention and care as well as 
their numerous interventions in the fight against the COVID-19 
global pandemic is commendable.
The NYSC entrepreneurship training initiative is an eloquent 
illustration of the capacity and responsiveness of the 
organisation to the contemporary development needs of the 
xv
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

country. I must place on record the fact that the Skills 
Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development Programme 
has changed the narrative of our graduate youths from “chasers 
after white collar jobs” to “employers of labors and wealth 
creators”. I am aware many ex-Corps Members across the nooks 
and crannies of Nigeria are excelling in their chosen businesses. 
It goes without saying that through their creativity, innovations 
and entrepreneurial sagacity, contemporary Nigeria is 
undoubtedly experiencing the a new development in which a 
generation of profitable business owners are emerging and 
redefining the nation's difficult history of reliance on the oil 
sector.
Furthermore, in line with the Federal Government's policy on 
diversification, the current leadership has redirected the efforts 
of the Scheme towards contributing to the revenue basket of the 
nation. Arising from this, the NYSC has activated its garment 
factories in Minna and Anambra, its water filtration and bakery 
factories in Kubwa, Abuja, amongst others. The Scheme has 
similarly extended its business tentacles to the creative industry, 
where its cultural troop (the NYSC Troupe) is performing 
wonders across the country. Through these efforts, it is on record 
that only last year, the Scheme generated over 280 million Naira 
to the country's coffers.
It is against the above backdrop that I am exceedingly delighted 
and indeed grateful to the editors and chapter contributors to 
this very important book titled The National Youth Service Corps 
Scheme, 1973-2020: Emergence, Development and Achievements , 
which focuses on  the evolution of the NYSC since inception. I 
can confidently declare that this is the first authoritative history 
of the Scheme chronicled by professional historians drawn from 
across the nation's institutions of learning. Based on an extensive 
field work, robust interactions with primary, secondary and 
electronic sources which were carefully selected, synthesized, 
analyze and interpreted, the book avails readers first hand 
profound insights on the emergence, growth and operations, as 
xvi
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

well as achievements and challenges of the NYSC in the almost 
five decades of its existence. I commend NYSC staff and 
numerous stakeholders and wholeheartedly recommend the 
book to policy makers, youth-based organizations, youth 
mobilization agencies, institutions of higher learning, 
government and national and non-governmental organizations 
as well as corporate bodies.
Brigadier General S. Ibrahim, Associate Professor, DSS,
PhD, MTRCN
Director General, NYSC
xvii
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

INTRODUCTION
The study of the forty eight years existence of the National Youth 
Service Corp Scheme is coming at a time when the Nigerian 
Society is once again on the boil with the festering fissiparous 
tendencies across the Nigerian society. This analogous situation 
was what existed in the years before and after the Nigerian Civil 
War. The rising ethnic tensions in the country and the 
humongous multifarious security challenges are pointers to the 
fact that more effort is required in the persisting nation-building 
project. This book is partly a tale of a major effort made by the 
Military regime of General Yakubu Gowon to close up the 
yearning gaps that existed after the war amongst the various 
Nigerian peoples. It x-rays the strategic attempt that sought to 
involve the Nigerian Youths in the nations healing process after 
a fratricidal encounter. The NYSC scheme was a major move 
towards nation -building. Given that the scheme has survived 
for over half a century, we can safely assert that it is one of the 
legacies of the Gowon administration that can be rejigged and 
deployed to address some of Nigeria's contemporary 
challenges. After five decades of existence and activities, 
evaluating the score card of the scheme has become a necessity. It 
is pertinent to note that the NYSC scheme is one of the enduring 
and impactful institutions set up in 1973 by the General Yakubu 
Gowon government to address the intractable problem of state 
fracture and several other problems that bedeviled the country. 
The scheme demonstrates how state institutions can be created 
and deployed as a tool for social engineering. This text 
interrogates the origins of the scheme, her modus operandi, 
achievements, impact and icons of the scheme. The fact that 
institutions play critical roles in the development process have 
since been emphasized by leading scholars of development 1
studies.  It is generally agreed that in addition to offering the 
1 
Samuel P. Huntington, Political Order in Changing Societies (Yale University Press, 1968); 
Becky Carter, “Defining Institutions”, in Governance and Social Development Resource Center , 
University of Birmingham, Retrieved
xviii
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

most assured nexus between policies and implementation, 
institutions provide the matrix for benchmarking the impact of 
development policies on society. This is besides providing the 
required contextual basis for understanding and making a sense 
of the entire gamut of the development process. Thus, as critical 
change agents, institutions promote efficiency and effectiveness 
in the governance process, while ensuring that all sectors and 
segments in society are not alienated from the development 
process at any point. For these reasons and a plethora of others, 
strong institutions have been identified as pivotal in the economic 
growth and development of modern societies. At a time the 
continent of Africa is grappling with numerous challenges which 
have implicated nation building, development experts are 
advocating and upholding strong institutions as possible 2
solutions.  But we must note that, contrary to widely held views, 
Africans have always had institutions; that is, if we agree that 
institutions are integrated systems of rules that structure social 
interactions; and as formal and informal mechanisms which 3
regulate human interactions and promote general good .
Prior to the advent of colonialism, institutions in Africa 
thrived and operated as agents of profound social change and 
transformations. Although in some societies, these institutions 
existed and reflected the social relations of production; on an 
average, their functionality impacted the entire social processes in 
the continent. Under colonialism, these were reconstituted and 
new ones added to basically serve the colonial enterprise. 
Colonialism and the order it created across Africa 
underdeveloped social institutions in at least three basic ways, 
viz: (i) in the process of entrenching its primary economic 
concerns, it devalued African culture, norms and values; and 
created new ones that were at variance with the aspirations of the 
people; (ii) its authoritarian nature and character entrenched and 
2
Augustin K. Fosu (ed.), Growth and Institutions in African Development. Also read, Ayso 
Van Eysinga “The Role of Institutions in Development: Contemporary Debate and 
Application to Cote D'Ivoire's Experience, 1960-1990", Perspectives: A Publication of the 
International Development Programme (John Hopkins School of International Studies, 
2014)3 
Geoffrey M. Hodgson, The Evolution of Institutional Economics, Agency, Structure and 
Darwinism in American Institutionalism (Routledge, 2004)
xiv
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

enforced the alienation of the mass of the people from the 
institutions that should ordinarily be at their beck and call; And 
(iii) it weaponized these institutions in the sense that instead of 
being agents of change and transformation, they were effective 4
tools for oppressing and pauperizing the people . It is this specific 
sense that colonialism is problematized as laying the foundations 
for weak institutions in the continent.
Having said that, we must emphasize the point that these 
inchoate institutions were handed over to our leaders when 
political independence was eventually negotiated in the late 
1950s and early 1960s. As part of this process, political 
independence was a canard for neocolonialism, which was to 
become a major challenge to the newly independent African 
nations. We should note that neocolonialism implicated our 
political independence in multiple ways than one. First, it stunted 
the growth of African postcolonial economies without which 5
political independence was meaningless.  Two, it handed over 6
polities that were structurally defective and socially fractious.  
And thirdly, it created a political class whose members were 
either inexperience, lacked statesmanship and found it extremely 
difficult to manage the contradictions of nation building; and/or 7
generally bankrupt.
In this circumstance, national integration proved to be a 
particularly herculean task indeed. From Ethiopia in the Horn of 
Africa to Sudan in North Africa; from the Democratic Republic of 
Congo and Uganda in East Africa to Cameroon and Rwanda in 
Central Africa; from Angola in Southern Africa to Nigeria in West 
4
 See Walter Rodney, How Europe Underdeveloped Africa  (Touisant L'Oveture, 1976); Bade 
Onimode, Imperialism and Mass Poverty: The Dialectics of Mass Poverty (London: Zed Publishers, 
1987); J. A Goldstone, Revolution and Rebellion in the Early Modern World (Berkeley,1991); Janice 
E. Thomson, Mercenaries, Pirates and Sovereigns: State-Building and Extra-Territorial Violence in  
Early Modern Europe (Priceton, 1994); Ado Boahen (ed.), UNESCO General History, VII: Africa 
Under Colonial Domination, 1800-1935 (Paris, UNESCO, 1990); And Toyin Falola (ed.),  Africa 
Vol. 3: Colonial Africa, 1885-1935 (Durham, North Carolina, 2002); P. I. Cain and A. G. Hopkins 
British Imperialism, 1600-2000  (2nd Edition, London, 2001); And Claude Ake, A Political 
Economy of Africa (Ibadan: Longman Group Ltd, 1981), 71-85.5
 Bade Onimode, Imperialism and Mass Poverty; And Claude Ake, A Political Economy of Africa;6
 Okpeh O. Okpeh, Jr. and Ben Due Iyav, (eds.), Leadership and Governance in Modern Africa 
(Makurdi: House of Hits, Wine Press, 2015)7
 W. Bokeelmann, O. Akinwumi, U.M. Nwankwo and A.O Agwuele (eds), African Leadership 
Challenges and other Issues (Berlin-Germany: Mediateam IT Educational Publishers), 2012;  
Okpeh O. Okpeh, Jr. and Ben Due Iyav, (eds.), Leadership and Governance in Modern Africa  
(Makurdi: House of Hits, Wine Press, 2015).
xx
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Africa; the challenge of multiculturalism became one of the core 
issues in the nation building efforts. The bloody civil wars which 
ensued in some of these countries after independence remained 
an eloquent testimony of the artificiality of the modern nation 
states crafted by colonialism, and underscored the imperative of 
deliberate efforts the leaders of these nations must make to 
sustain the corporeality of their polities. It is against this backdrop 
that the establishment of the National Youth Service Corps 
(NYSC) scheme by the General Yakubu Gowon administration in 
post civil Nigeria comes into sharp focus and within which 
context it should be understood. The NYSC was initially created 
to drive the regime's post-civil war policy of Reconciliation, 
Reconstruction and Rehabilitation (the 3Rs), but soon became the 
largest youth mobilization agency in Africa committed to 
national integration and development. Throughout its almost five 
decades of existence, its quantum contributions to the 
development of post-independence Nigeria is incontrovertible. 
This book, titled The National Youth Service Corps Scheme, 1973-
2020: Emergence, Development and Achievements, chronicles the 
evolution of this institution since its emergence in 1973. 
Comprising of twenty one well-written chapters, the volume is 
fragmented into five closely interlocked sections. The first section 
which comprises five chapters avails the reader of a detailed 
background to the formation of scheme. It looks at that aspects of 
the history of Nigeria that sets the stage for the establishment of 
the scheme, the global context and idea of a service scheme, the 
processes involved in the establishment of the NYSC and its 
organizational structure. The second section focuses on the 
structure and policies of the scheme. Some of the themes 
examined in this section include, the military character of the 
scheme, its policy on posting and primary assignments, corps 
members voluntary groups and societies and the nature of the 
scheme's community development service. The third section 
examines the growth and development of the scheme and the five 
chapters here interrogated themes like the transformations it has 
experienced since its establishment, the role of leadership in its 
success story, changes and continuities in the NYSC uniform and 
the contributions of the scheme to sports and youths 
development in the country. Section four takes on the 
xxi
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

achievements and contributions of  the  scheme  to  national
  development.  The  five  chapters  in  this  section  discussed  the
  NYSC and national development, the contributions of the NYSC
  to free and fair elections in Nigeria, the scheme and manpower
  development, the scheme's youth mobilization and development
  and the contributions of the NYSC to the Nigerian labour market.
  The fifth section focuses on the challenges and prospects of the
  NYSC.  The  two  chapters  here  examine  some  of  the  teething
  challenges  militating  against  the  organization  and  the  efforts
  taken to mitigate these even as the institutions hopes to survive
  beyond the 21st century.
  Anchored essentially on primary sources and written in very
simple language, the book is a major contribution to the history of
the  NYSC  which  although  contributes  immensely  to  national
development, but is largely misunderstood by some Nigerians. It
is hoped that the awareness the issues raised in the volume would
generate  amongst  Nigerians  would  help  resolve  some  of  the
misconceptions, ambiguities and sometimes ambivalence which
some  people  hold  against  the  social  institution  in  spite  of  its
massive contributions to national development. It is high time we
began  to  acknowledge  the  role  the  scheme  plays  in  nation
building. Also, the challenges encountered by the scheme over
the years are examined. A comprehension of these challenges will
enable  the  stakeholders  rejig  the  scheme  for  better  and  more
impactful performance in the years ahead.
  We express our profound appreciation to the founding fathers
of the NYSC and is its current management led by the Director
General, Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim, for giving the approval and
making  resources  available  for  the  field  work  leading  to  the
successful  completion  of  this  book.  We  also  acknowledge  with
gratitude  our  partners  at  the  NYSC  Directorate,  for  their
cooperation, encouragement and support. We thank our team of
chapter  contributors  and  research  assistants  through  whose
efforts  the  book  was  successfully  completed.  Above  all,  we 
return all glory to God Almighty.
Okpeh O. Okpeh, Jr.
Christopher B. N. Ogbogbo Abuja, Nigeria.
xxii
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

SECTION ONE: BACKGROUND
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Chapter One
THE NIGERIAN BACKGROUND
CBN Ogbogbo 
Department of History 
University of Ibadan 
Ibadan, Nigeria
Nigeria is a country of diversities and complexities. It comprises 
very many ethnic groups, a multiplicity of geographical 
landscapes and features, different vegetation and climatic 
conditions, varied socio-economic miscellanies, numerous 
delicious cuisines, multiple traditional political systems and 
hot-puree of cultures. Indeed, in whatever aspect of life one 
turns to in Nigeria, the picture that emerges is that of a salad 
bowl, a corpus of varieties. It is in these differences that the 
country derives her strength as well as her challenges. 
Therefore, in wielding the many Nigerian peoples together in 
the task of nation building, a major challenge has remained to 
get Nigerian peoples from every nook and cranny of the country 
to know and appreciate the multifaceted nature of the country.
Fig. 1: Nigeria's Six Geopolitical Zones
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The various hitherto autonomous autochthonous groups in 
the Nigerian geographical area were brought together under 
one political umbrella in 1914 as part of British colonial 
adventure in Africa. This new political creation called Nigeria 
occupies a total land area of about 923,769 sq. km and is made up 
of over 250 ethnic groups. Linguists tell us that there are 529 
languages in Nigeria which makes her the second most 1 
linguistically diverse country in the world. At independence in 
1960, it became a Federation which today is made up of 36 states 
and a Federal Capital Territory in Abuja. As at 2020, the 
population of the country is estimated to be over 206 million 
inhabitants, making her the most populous country in Africa 2
and the seventh most populous in the world. A prominent West 
African country, all her territorial neighbours (Benin Republic, 
Cameroon, Chad and Niger) have French language as their 
lingua franca.
The physical geographical features of the country are also 
diverse. At the southern extremity of the country is the coastal 
region that borders the Atlantic Ocean. It is the main swampy 
region of the country with a criss-crossing of rivers and water 
bodies. It is from this region of Nigeria that the Rivers Benue and 
Niger empty into the Atlantic Ocean. The rainfall in this region is 
intense and falls almost all year round. The peculiarity of the 
environment has shaped the people and the region's history and 
economic disposition. Before the emergence of the crude oil 
economy, the inhabitants were mainly fishermen, farmers, salt 
makers and canoe carvers. The land available for farming was 
circumscribed by the abundance of the swampy terrain.
1 
F.O. Egbokhare (2020), “Resourcing Language for Peace and Security Management in 
Nigeria” being the text of a lecture delivered at the Nigerian Army Resource Centre, 
Abuja on 26 November 2020.
2
CBN Ogbogbo (2020), in CBN Ogbogbo & Okpeh Okpeh (Eds.).”The Environment and 
Peopling of Nigeria” in Nigerian History from the Earliest Times to The Twenty-First Century,
LANUV, Lagos.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 20204
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NIGERIAN BACKGROUND 5
Fig. 2: Physical Features of Nigeria
The discovery of humungous amount of crude oil deposit in the 
area in 1956 has made the area the goose that lays the golden egg. 
There has subsequently been increased migrations into the area 
by Nigerians and foreigners who seek to take advantage of the 
new oil industry. A major outcome of the oil economy is the 
development of cities like Bonny, Eket, Port Harcourt and Warri. 
These cities have become cosmopolitan and places of vigorous 
inter-group relations amongst Nigerians. It is in this region that 
you find autochthonous peoples such as the Edo, Efik, Etche, 
Ibibio, Ijo, Ikwerre, Isoko, Itesekiri, Urhobo, etc. Due to the 
nature of the terrain, most of the states formed in the pre-colonial 
era were city states that were limited in size due to the largely 
aquatic nature of the area.
Immediately above this region is thick forest belt otherwise 
referred to as the ever green forest. The occupants of the area are 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

mainly farmers and hunters. Some fishing is also carried out in 
some of the rivers that transverse the area. Blacksmithing and 
cloth weaving are also part of the occupational engagement of 
the peoples. The bulk of the palm oil for which Nigeria was th 
reputed for during the palm oil trade era of the 19 century was 
mainly from this region. It was from this area that major centres 
of political civilization flourished. Prominent amongst these are 
the Benin and Oyo Empires. Yet, it was also in the forest region 
that we have the blossoming of non-centralised state systems 
such as was in Igboland. There are some highlands in the region. 
These are mainly in the Enugu area and the Ekiti axis. The 
predominant groups in this region are the Edo, Igbo and Yoruba 
and their major towns in the region are Aba, Abeokuta, Akure, 
Awka, Asaba, Benin, Enugu, Ibadan, Onitsha, Osogbo, Owerri 
and Uromi.
Moving northwards from the forest region is a place 
geographers referred to as the Middle belt. It is geographically a 
transition zone in which the thick vegetation of the forest region 
begins to tin out and some of the features of the savannah above 
is accommodated. The frequency of rainfall in the Middle belt 
diminishes with implications for the nature of the vegetation. It 
is the region where the Rivers Benue and Niger converge and 
make their descent into the forest and coastal regions. The region 
is sufficiently watered and so provides a good environment for 
farming both tuber and grain crops. It is due to the immense 
agricultural activities of the people and the quantum of their 
production that the area is affectionately referred to as the food 
basket of the region. Apart from the agricultural economy, the 
colonial period saw the emergence of the extractive industry in 
the region. Cities like Jos became famous for tin mining and 
attracted a lot of migrants from other regions. It is the home of 
the Birom, Egun, Gbagyi, Idoma, Jukun, Igala, Igbira,Nupe, Tiv 
and other indigenous minority peoples. They are settled in 
towns such as Abuja, Bida, Gboko, Ilorin, Jos, Lokoja, Minna, 
Okenne, Otukpo and Makurdi.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 20206
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NIGERIAN BACKGROUND 7
Fig. 3: Map of Nigeria showing some of the ethnic groups
At the northern extreme of the Nigerian geographical area is the 
Sahel savannah region that has experienced the incursion of the 
Sahara desert. It is arid and lacks the dominant green vegetation 
that characterizes the Forest and Coastal regions discussed 
earlier. It is watered by few rivers that enable some watering of 
the area. The main occupation of the peoples is farming, herding 
and trading. There are others who engage in blacksmithing, 
weaving and dyeing. It has vast land mass, and to the 
northeastern flank is the Lake Chad which in recent times has 
witnessed increased desiccation. In the pre-colonial times, 
several international trading centres like Kano, Katsina and 
Bornu emerged and have remained important cities to present 
times. Apart from grains, they also produced meat, hides and 
skins from rearing livestock. Their cattle remain the major 
source of beef production for the other regions in the country. 
The Hausa, Fulani, Kanuri and other minority groups who 
mostly occupy this region live in towns such as Bauchi, Kaduna, 
Kano, Katsina, Maiduguri, Sokoto and Yola.
The point we seek to demonstrate is that the country's 
diverse geographical nature has resulted in assorted cultural 
formations that account for differing socio-economic and 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

political lifestyles of the peoples. Even their traditional beliefs 
have been affected by these features. While those in the 
highlands and mountains talk about mountain spirits and gods, 
those in the southern extremity of the country are more inclined 
towards water spirits and mermaids. The nature of Nigerian 
peoples' food intake has also been largely determined by these 
geographical features. While further north of the country, grains 
consumption seems to be the major staple of the people, those in 
the forest areas have yams and tuber crops generally as their 
major food source. For the coastal areas, fish and plantains 
feature prominently in their cuisine.
The peoples and communities that make up what is today 
called Nigeria have existed for thousands of years in the 
geographical areas where they located. However, it took the 
British conquest and imposition of colonial rule to bring the very 
many groups under one political authority in 1914. Since then, 
there have been the challenge of wielding the disparate peoples 
into a nation state. Although diverse, the many peoples have, 
down the ages, interacted with one another vigorously. These 
interactions span the pre-colonial, colonial and post-colonial 
periods in her history. Indeed, it has meant decades of cordial 
relationships as well as periods of tension between the 
multifaceted groups. Culturally, even though the groups have 
developed their unique traits over the years, they also have areas 
of cultural convergence as a result of hitherto existing inter-
group relations. These many groups in Nigeria have over the 
years evolved their various cultural traits which have given 
them their unique identities. It can therefore be argued that 
before and since 1914, there has been a further consolidation and 
convergence of certain aspects of the different peoples' culture 3 
that can today be regarded as an emerging Nigerian identity.
Indeed, the diverse environmental features of the country have 
contributed immensely in shaping the history and cultures of 
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 20208
3 
J.F.A. Ajayi (1963), Milestones in Nigerian History, Ibadan, Heinemann.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

the different Nigerian peoples.
The stories of origin of most Nigerian peoples are 
interwoven with those of their neighbours. While some 
communities and groups allude to migrations from places 
outside the Nigerian geographical area, others assert with 
certainty that they migrated from locations within the Nigerian 
area. The implication is that, in terms of origin, some Nigerian 
groups have some communality with some other Nigerian 
peoples. As pointed out elsewhere, these migrations have not 
ceased. They have continued in different waves and guises for 
various reasons. This has complicated the nature of inter-group 
relations amongst Nigerian peoples. The waves of migrations 
are not just within the country but from outside the country. For 
example, Nigeria is currently witnessing in 2020, the influx of 
migrants presumed to be mainly Fulani from other parts Africa 4
into Nigeria . It is this that led to the conclusion that ''migrations 
have continued in droves even in contemporary times for 
economic, political, social, environmental and various other 
reasons. We can, therefore, assert that migrations within and 
from outside the country have been a continuing phenomenon 5
before, during and after colonial rule for several reasons” . 
The establishment, growth and development of some cities 
and urban centres since colonial era are partly due this 
phenomenon of population movements. This is the case with 
Lagos and Abuja at the Federal government's level, while at the 
state levels, towns like Awka, Asaba, Enugu, Ibadan, Jos, 
Kaduna, Kano, Maiduguri, Port Harcourt, Sokoto, Warri, 
Yenegoa, etc. have emerged as major urban centres. The point 
being made is that the growth and development of these towns 
is partly explicable in terms of the movement of peoples into 
4 
N.E. Lenshie (2020), 'Nomadic Migration and Rural Violence in Nigeria: Interrogating 
the Conflicts between Fulani Herdsmen and Farmers in Taraba State', Ethnic Studies 
Review, 43 (1) pp.65-69.5 
CBN Ogbogbo (2020).'' The Environment and Peopling of Nigeria” ….
THE NIGERIAN BACKGROUND 9
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

these areas. There is also the phenomenon of migrations from 
rural areas of Nigeria to urban centres that serves as a point of 
convergence for those seeking greener pastures. These 
movements of people are not limited to locations within Nigeria 
alone, but have a good dose of movements into these cities from 
West Africa in particular and the rest of the African continent in 
their search for better economic opportunities. Prominent 
commercial cities such as Aba, Kano, Lagos, Onitsha and Port 
Harcourt are good examples of cosmopolitan cities that have 
acquired an international status.
It is important to emphasize that these cities have been a 
melting- pot for Nigerians from different ethnic groups. They 
have become major centres of inter-group relations as well as 
nation building. However, the cities represent a small 
percentage of where the bulk of the Nigerian citizens dwell. 
Indeed, a good chunk of the Nigerian population are rural 
dwellers. Rural areas that are grossly underdeveloped, lack 
infrastructural facilities and having populations that are largely 
homogenous and indigenous to the area. This was the picture of 
Nigeria during and after colonial rule. The differences amongst 
the peoples and areas were palpable. There was, therefore, a 
crave amongst patriots and nationalist to address these 
divisions in the country by formulating policies that will seek to 
forge the various peoples together and accelerate the pace of 
nation building.
One of the legacies of colonialism in Nigeria is the wielding 
of her disparate peoples under one political umbrella. This 
introduced into the body politics of the country intense political 
rivalry amongst the many ethnic groups in the quest for political 
power. It also brought certain dichotomies into the body politics 
of the country. For instance, the wielding together of hitherto 
autonomous groups created a categorisation of some as 
minorities and others as majority groups. These dichotomies 
resulted in rivalries amongst the various identities. There was 
also competition amongst ethnic groups for the emergent 
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 202010
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

economic opportunities. These rivalries created tensions and 
heated up the polity. The convergence of peoples in the growing 
commercial centres and new administrative cities seem to have 
exacerbated the competitions and rivalries amongst the various 
ethnic groups in the country. Various ethnic group associations 
began to emerge as organisations geared towards catering for 
and protecting the affairs of their members. For instance, there 
were the Egbe Omo Oduwa of the Yoruba, the Igbo Union and 
the Arewa Front of the Hausa-Fulani and other Northern 
Nigerian peoples. Apart from these major ethnic groups, there 
were many town unions that also sought political, economic and 
developmental advantages for their towns and members.
For our purpose, it is important to point out that the rivalries 
amongst these groups did create some tensions in the country 
and put substantial strain on cordial inter–group relations. 
Suspicion amongst one another became ripe. More importantly, 
there was ignorance about and prejudices against one another. 
This became much more manifested in the political sphere after 
independence. Apart from the fact that most of the political 
parties wore an ethnic toga, the politicians, in their search for 
power, exploited the ethnic differences. They, thus 
inadvertently, became ethnic jingoists who fanned the group 
differences. They, in every election circle, became more and 
more of a centrifugal force. It was this tense situation, coupled 
with a concatenation of factors, which provided a justification 
for a military take-over of the political machinery of the state in 
January 1966. 
The wielding of the disparate groups in the Nigerian area 
into one political entity was completed in 1914 with the 
amalgamation of Northern and Southern Protectorates. What 
preceded the 1914 merger were what historians refer to as wars 
of pacification and subjugation between the Britain and the 
different Nigerian peoples. After the amalgamation, for 
administrative convenience, the country was divided into 
several provinces. By 1954, the country was divided into three 
THE NIGERIAN BACKGROUND 11
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

main regions. These were the Northern, Western and Eastern 
regions. This division sought to bring together groups that were 
ethnically, culturally and historically contiguous. While the 
Northern region comprised the Hausa-Fulani as the main 
dominant group with other minorities, the Western region was 
made up mainly of Yoruba peoples and some other less 
populous ethnic groups. The Igbo were the major players in the 
Eastern region and like the earlier two regions, they had a 
several minority groups. From this three regional political 
structure, an additional region, Midwestern region, was created 
from the Western region in 1963. From the four regions of the 
post-independence era, the country was reconfigured into 
twelve states on the eve of the Nigerian civil war in 1967. What is 
instructive for our purpose is the fact that with every novel 
political reconfiguration, new identities were created with its 
concomitant challenges and tensions between the peoples under 
the new identity and those from which they were extricated. 
Since then, there has been several state creation efforts by 
different military regimes that have culminated into 36 states 
and a Federal Capital Territory. 
In accounting for the first military coup in Nigeria, several 
factors that we will not be able to explore gravitated the country 
into a three-year period of unprecedented massacre and 
bloodletting in Nigeria's history. What is important for our 
purpose is that there was substantial ethnic suspicion and a 
drifting apart of the various ethnic groups. The civilian 
politicians who manned the state lacked the political 
brinkmanship to properly co-ordinate the affairs of the state. 
Part of the charges against them was the unbridled corruption 
that characterised their era in the first half of the 1960s. The 
corruption, rivalries and attempt to dominate and control the 
constituencies of their political opponents, ultimately plunged 
the country into a 30-month conflagration. 
The civil war that ensued, called the Nigeria-Biafra war, 
resulted in monumental destruction of lives and properties. 
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 202012
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

There was gross damage of the scanty infrastructural facilities 
hitherto existed. The country, especially the Biafran enclave 
which approximated to the then Eastern region, was heavily 
damaged. Roads, bridges, buildings, schools and hospitals all 
became part of the war casualties. Indeed, after the war, Nigeria 
was faced with the humongous challenge of rebuilding the 
country. 
The General Yakubu Gowon's administration had at the end 
of the war declared that there was no victor no vanquished. His 
government consequently proclaimed the official policy of 3 Rs 
i.e. Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and Reconciliation. It was 
targeted at uniting the country through reintegration of the 
Biafrans back into the Nigerian fold. To accomplish the set out 
objectives required not just political will and the requisite 
financial resources but also the necessary manpower to rejig the 
country. In order to address the problem of disunity, it was 
realised that the issue of prejudice borne out of ignorance 
needed to be tackled in the hearts of the people. 
Part of the strategy adopted by the military administration 
of General Gowon was to address the challenges of disunity and 
underdevelopment through the establishment of the National 
Youth Service Corp (NYSC) scheme for graduates of higher 
institutions. There were two major likely dividends of the 
programme. It was expected that deploying the energetic 
educated youth population to every nook and cranny of the 
country will expose them to the varied cultures and peoples of 
Nigeria. This was expected to clear their misgivings and 
positively reorient their thoughts and actions towards other 
ethnic groups. It also served as a programme that should enable 
them understand their country and be able to address the 
development challenges confronting the country. This is 
especially so as the educated youth population constitute a 
critical mass of the educated population equipped with requisite 
skills that will enable them impact on the larger society. 
THE NIGERIAN BACKGROUND 13
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

It was, therefore, in the judgement of the General Yakubu 
Gowon's administration that the peculiar challenge of 
divisiveness and the centripetal tendencies that characterised 
the decades preceding that of 1970s should be redressed. 
Nigerian youths were, after the civil war, conscripted into the 
NYSC scheme to form the vanguard of those to usher a 
resorgimento that will give birth to a new Nigeria. The Youth 
Corps members were to be the answer to the seminal inquisition 
6
of Obaro Ikime in In search of Nigerians. Indeed, the Corps 
members were to provide the gravitational pull for the 
emergence of the 'de-ethnicised' Nigerian who understood the 
challenges of nation building and was willing to contribute his/ 
her quota to the task of revitalising the Nigerian nation after the 
civil war. They were to provide that critical cord of unity 
amongst Nigerians in the post – civil war years.
Put differently, there has since 1914, been a considerable 
fusion of the various Nigerian peoples . Unfortunately, this 
aspect of Nigerian history, i.e. the cords of unity, is often not 
emphasised; rather, it is the actions of disunity that are regularly 
Fig. 4: General Yakubu Gowon
6 
O. Ikime, (1985), In Search of Nigerians: Changing Patterns of Inter Group - Relations 
in an Evolving Nation State, Historical Society of Nigeria, Ibadan.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 202014
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

focused on whenever there are nation building challenges. In the 
course of implementing the NYSC dream over the years, the 
programme has witnessed considerable tweaking, continuities 
and changes. What is important is that it has continued to 
survive in spite of the question of continuing relevance that has 
arisen in recent times. The rest of this book attempts a rigorous 
interrogation of the NYSC story, the achievements and successes 
of the programme and areas of inadequacy that could inform a 
rejigging of the scheme.
It is a truism that the idea of a youth service scheme is not a 
novel one. Other countries like Israel, United States of America, 
Tanzania, Botswana, Ethiopia, etc. did establish their youth 
schemes before Nigeria's. It is argued that taking into cognisance 
the nature of the Nigerian environment just before the 1970s and 
the timing of the establishment of the NYSC Scheme, it was 
apparent that the scheme was one whose time had come and the 
leadership of the country responded timeously to a yearning 
gap that was waiting to be filled.
References
Ajayi, J.F. Ade & Crowder M. (Eds.), (1971) History of West Africa 
Vol. 1, London, Longman Group, 1971.
Alagoa, E.J., 2019, Nigeria in History: Lifting Burdens, Learning 
Lessons (Port Harcourt: Doval Ventures Ltd. 
Asiwaju, A.I. Ed. (1984) Partitioned Africans: Ethnic Relations 
Across Africa's International Boundaries 1884 – 1984. Lagos, 
University of Lagos Press. 
Dike K.O., (1956) Trade and Politics in the Niger Delta 1830-1885, 
Oxford University Press, London.
Falola, T., Mahdi, A., Uhomoibhi, M., & Anyanwu, U. (1989), 
History of Nigeria 1: Nigeria Since 1800 AD Ikeja, Leam Africa 
PLC.
Ikime, O. (2018) Can Anything Good Come out of History? Ibadan, 
Bookcraft.
THE NIGERIAN BACKGROUND 15
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Ikime, O. (Ed.) 1980, Groundwork of Nigerian History Heinemann, 
Ibadan
Ikime, O. (1985), In Search of Nigerians: Changing Patterns of Inter 
Group Relations in an Evolving Nation State, HSN, Ibadan.
Jones, G.I. (1963) The Trading States of the Oil Rivers, London. 
Mahdi Adamu, (1978) The Hausa Factor in West African History, 
Zaria, Ahmadu Bello University Press.
Ogbogbo, C.B.N. (ed.), (2011 ) Perspectives in African History , 
Ibadan, Bookwright, p.121.
Ogbogbo, CBN & Okpeh O. Okpeh (Eds.) 2021, Nigerian History 
From The Earliest Times To The Twenty-First Century, LANUV, 
Lagos.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 202016
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Chapter Two
THE IDEA OF NATIONAL SERVICE: 
GLOBAL PERSPECTIVES 
Okpeh O. Okpeh Jr.
Department of History & International Studies 
Federal University of Lafia
“Ask not what your country can do for you; 
ask what you can do for your country” 
John F. Kennedy, January 1961
1. Introduction
Historically, the notion of national service resonates with all 
nations. Nations evolve national values to which citizens 
subscribe. Allegiance to the nation is therefore almost always 
considered sacrosanct because national call to duty is the highest 
form of instinctive loyalty a citizen can accord his/her country. 
Across the globe, this sense of psychic and emotional 
identification with the nation on the part of citizens is what is 
referred to as patriotism. This profound loyalty to the nation has 
been expressed in many ways by different countries, depending 
on the values they cherish and strongly uphold, and the extent to 
which they subscribe to their history. Some express it by 
performing their civic duties to the nation, while others simply 
identify with and completely submit themselves to what their 
country considers as core national values. Yet others offer 
themselves in service to the nation in whatever form, at 
whatever level and for whatever purpose. Experts have 
observed that such total commitment usually requires the 
institutionalization of a social system and process which sets up 
values that transcend the parochial interests of the 
1 
constituentparts of the nation. As an integral part of this process, 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

the nation must also have and demonstrate the capacity to 
compel such respect and loyalty from citizens by the extent to 
which it protects and provides for them. It is against this 
backdrop that this chapter examines the idea of National Service 
(NS) from a global perspective and links this with our experience 
with the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC). It discusses the 
pristine ideas and variables that informed its establishment in 
May 1973 and shows how changes at the global and national 
scenes have informed some of the structural transformations it 
has undergone. We would conclude by highlighting some of its 
major contributions to national development.
2. The Notion of National Service: Some Conceptual Insights 
The notion of a National Service (NS) has never occurred in a 
vacuum. Indeed, across the globe, there is a sense in which 
nations latch on their historical experiences and sense of 
oneness, critical demographics and their perception of the 
international system as well as their role in it, to institutionalize 
national values with which citizens identify. A deeper 
understanding of the idea of NS would therefore require a 
conceptualization of the idea of the nation. We must ask what the 
nation is to understand the national values that arouse citizens' 
instinctive loyalty to the nation, in the first place. A variety of 
definitions avail themselves for consideration in this regard. In 
one context, the nation is conceived as a community of people 
whose members are bonded in one by a sense of community 
2
solidarity, cultural traditions, and a feeling of common identity.
1 
Hugh Seton-Watson, Nations and States: An Enquiry into the Origins of Nations and the 
Politics of Nationalism (London: Methuen, 1977); Benedict Anderson, Imagined 
Communities: Reflections on the Origin and Spread of Nationalism (London, UK: Verso 
Editions, 198) Arthur A. Nwankwo, National Consciousness for Nigeria Enugu: Fourth 
Dimension Publishers, 1985 York: University of Rochester Press, 2001); And Toin Falola, 
Nationalism and African Intellectuals (New York: University of Rochester Press, 2001).2  
Goodknows Boladei Igali, Global Trends in State Formation: An introduction into the Origin, 
Survival and Demise of States (USA and Canada: Trafford Publishers, 2014), 7.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 202018
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Benedict Anderson, however, argues that nations are essentially 
imagined entities which are delimited because of their boundaries 
and based on the idea of those considered to be within and outside 3 
the boundaries. Based on this, he tersely submits that nations 
exist and are operated through exclusion: those who belong and 
those who do not.
On his part, Paul Gilbert offers what should ordinarily be 
considered as an elastic concept of the nation, in which he 
isolates and describes at least six different historical situations 
and experiences as unique concepts of the nation as follows:
The Nominalist notion of a nation: whatever a group 
of people who consider themselves a nation say a 
nation is; The Voluntarist notion of a nation: A group 
of people bound by a commonly-willed nation; The 
Territorial notion of a nation: A group of people 
located in the same proximity, or territory; The 
Linguistic notion of a nation: A group of people who 
share the same language; The Axiological notion of a 
nation: A group of people who have the same 
distinctive values; The Destinarian notion of a 
nation: A group of people who have common 4
history, and a common mission.
From the above, it is clear that nations do not just emerge; 
they happen and evolve on the basis of certain integrative 
variables. These could be a common origin, language, territory 
and/or historical experience. It is from a combination or all of 
these factors that national values, identity and consciousness 
sprout and develop and through which the instinctive loyalty 
and deep sense of identification with the nation evolves in the 
3    
Benedict Anderson,Imagined Communities...4 
Paul Gilbert, “The Nationalism Project” (Westview Press, 2016). Also see James S. 
Coleman, Nigeria: Background to Nationalism (Berkeley and Los Angeles: University of 
California, 1970); Ernest Gellina, Nations and Nationalism (Ithaca, New York: The 
Cornell University Press, 1988); Anthony D. Smith, Nation and Nationalism in a Global Era 
(Cambridge: Polity Press, 1995); And Anthony D. Smith, Nationalism, Theory, Ideology, 
History (Second Edition), (Cambridge Polity Press, 2001)
THE IDEA OF NATIONAL SERVICE: GLOBAL PERSPECTIVES 19
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

people. Thus, as we argued elsewhere, national consciousness is 
never (has never been and will never be) a finished business so 
long as the nation exists and in so far as the citizens identify with 5
the sovereign aspirations of the nation.
It only seizes to exist when this loyalty to the corporate 
existence of the nation in its citizens evaporates or begins to 
wane. In such circumstance, there is usually a loss of faith in the 
sovereignty of the nation, which if not quickly mitigated could 
lead to the loss of legitimacy. Where this becomes the extreme 
case, as we saw in the experience of the Union of Soviet Socialist 
6 
Republics (USSR) and Yugoslavia, the diverse groups in the 
nation would seek radical alternative options, including the 
dismemberment of the nation. 
In order to avert this rather awkward and unfortunate fate 
and all the problems this could ramify into, most modern nations 
deliberately evolve strategies, policies, values and build 
institutions to keep aflame national consciousness in their 
citizens which they uphold as a sine qua non for nationalism and 
by extension, a requisite ingredient in the development of any 
meaningful national ideology. According to Nwankwo, national 
consciousness involves a set of cultural attitudes and beliefs 
which are intended to give order and meaning to a nation's 
political, social and economic processes. In its absence, the 7 
leader wavers, the nation drifts and the people suffer. Arising 
from these, there is a sense in which National Service, national 
5 
Okpeh O. Okpeh, Jr., “Towards an Ideology for National Integration in 21st Century 
Nigeria: Some lessons from History”, in proceedings of the 3rd Faculty of Arts National 
Seminar on the themeThe Humanities and National Integration (Makurdi: Faculty of Arts, 
Benue State University, 2004), 283.6 
Mihajlo Mihajlov, “Can Yugoslavia Survive?”, Journal of Democracy, Vol.2, No.2,(Spring 
1991), 79-91Boladei Igali, “Nationalism in the Soviet Union”, in Pakistan Journal of 
International Affairs (1991); A. Shevstov, The State and Nations in the USSR (Moscow: 
Progress Publishers, 1992); Gregory Gleason, “The Federal Formular and the Collapse of 
the USSR”, Publius: The Journal of Federalism, 22, 3 (Summer), 141-163; “The Collapse of 
the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and its Implications for the New World Order”, 
unpublished paper (1992); And Ted Robert Gurr, Minorities at Risk: A Global View of 
Geopolitical Conflicts (Washington DC: United States Institute of Peace Press, 1993)7
Arthur A. Nwankwo, National Consciousness for Nigeria, 16-17.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 202020
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

consciousness, nationalism and the idea of the nation are 
mutually inter-locked and reinforcing to define a people, their 
nation and their identity. This also explains why it is hardly 
possible to talk about national consciousness and identity 
without first referring to a people in a sovereign nation. People 
make up the nation to the extent that the sovereignty of a nation 
ab. initsio resides in the people and their commitment and loyalty 
to the latter.
Therefore, National Service is one of the many ways citizens 
demonstrate commitment and loyalty to their nation. It is a 
system by which citizens (usually young men and women) are 
made to compulsorily or voluntarily serve their country for a 
definite period of time. The idea is to re-orient them towards 
greater commitment to national ideals, unity and the 
development of their nation. As a concept however, National 
Service may be described as:
An organized period of substantial “engagement” 
and“contribution” to local, national or world 
community, recognized and valued by society, with 8
initial monetary compensation to the participant.
In another context, National Service has been closely 
associated with the military and its primary purpose of 
defending the nation. For example, Donald Eberly, while 
articulating the United States experience, links it with at least 
four purposes as follows: (i) to make military draft more 
equitable; (ii) to ease the problem of youth unemployment; (iii) 
to activate citizen responsibility; And (iv) it is a form of 9
experiential learning.
8 
Michaerl Sherraden cited in Godwin O. Odeh, “NYSC's Engagement in the Development of Abuja, 
1982-2011",
Rima International Journal of Historical Studies, Vol. 1, No 2 (Department of History, 2018), 142.9 
Donald J. Eberly, “The Changing Face of National in the 20th Century”, a paper presented at the 
Second Global Conference on National Youth Service, Abuja, Nigeria, October 10th -14th, 1994. 
Similarly, for views in this regard, read A. O. Sanda, “ Youth Service and World Peace”, paper 
presented at the Second Global Conference on National Youth Service, Abuja, Nigeria, October 10th -
14th, 1994; And Godwin O. Odeh, “Demiliitarizing and Democratizing the Appointment of NYSC 
Director General: Forging Civil - Military Relations”, in Chukwuma C. C. Osakwe and
O. E. Tangban, et al (eds.), War, Society and Leadership in Nigeria: Essays in Honor of Brigadier General 
Shuabu Ibrahim (Kaduna: Nigerian Defense Academy, 2020), 19- 34
THE IDEA OF NATIONAL SERVICE: GLOBAL PERSPECTIVES 21
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 202022
The above definitions underscore a plethora of issues which 
we should note, even if briefly, for illustrative purposes. First, is 
its structural nature; which emphasizes its organizational and 
formal character. While it lasts, participants are subjected to a 
capacity building.
Table 1: Showing Typologies of National Service Globally
Source: Okpeh, 2020
Notes:
Type A: This typology of National Service is compulsory military 
service for a definite period of time during which youth are given purely 
military training involving the use of firearms; and imparted 
leadership and citizenship training. Those trained are considered 
reserves for possible integration into the military.
Type B: As in the case of Type A (above), it focuses on the youth who are 
required to mandatorily serve the nation for a definite period of time, 
usually not exceeding eighteen months during which they are taught 
the virtues of sacrifice, commitment and service to the nation. During 
the service period, they are trained to acquire requisite skills and 
managerial capability for future challenges.
Type C: This category of National Service is not compulsory or 
mandatory, but anchored on the principles of democratic living and 
upholdsthe need for selfless service to community or nation. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Individuals on personal convictions present themselves for services to 
society.
Process that would enable them learn new skills and imbibe new 
values that equip them for the challenges of the future. Frumkin 
and Jastrzab emphasized this point in their critical analysis of the 
benefits of National Service at four levels: citizenship, personal 
growth, social capital, and public work; all of which impact both 
the individual and his country positively. Secondly, it involves a 
definite period of time during which those participating render 
valued services to their community or nation. Thirdly, although 
it could come with monetary compensations for those involved, 
its primary objective and purpose transcends material gains; 
because, it is basically undergirded by the notion of citizenship 
and service to community and country considered a civic 
and/or patriotic duty.
We should perhaps note at the onset that participants in such 
services are usually young men and woman of specific age 
brackets, usually 18 to 35. The emphasis on this category of 
people is deliberate and the explanation is not far-fetched. The 
central place of youth in the advancement of humanity has been 
10 
generally acknowledged by leading analysts. This consensus of 
opinion appears to stem from the incontestable fact of their 
latent potential which if positively channeled could catalyze into 
a critical variable in the development process. Across the world 
and throughout the ages, nations deliberately invest in this 
category of people for obvious reasons. First, the youth are 
society's bridge to the future. As leaders of tomorrow, they have 
to be equipped for future challenges through a broad 
10 
For example, see the following works: K. Kenniston, Youth Dissent: The Rise of a New 
Opposition (New York: Harvest Books, 1971); P. K. Manning and M. Truzzi, Youth 
Sociology (Eaglewood Cliffs: Sage Publications, 1982); B. Coles, Youths and Social Policy: 
Youth, Citizenship and Young Careers (London: UCL, 1995); C. Benue J. Nwanegbo, J. T. 
Tsuwa and A. M. Jega (eds.), The Youth, Democracy and National Development (Abuja: SAP 
Publishing House, 1999); C. Breinbauer and M. Maddaleno, Youth Choices and Change 
(Washington, DC: PAHO, 2005); And the Benue Journal of Youth Development, Maiden 
Edition (Benue State University: Student Affairs Division, 2015)
THE IDEA OF NATIONAL SERVICE: GLOBAL PERSPECTIVES 23
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

empowerment process characterised by capacity building, skills 
acquisition and improvement of their knowledge base. Secondly 
and by virtue of their age bracket, they are and can be society's 
most productive segment, ceteri peribus (all things being equal). It 
is in this category of humans that we find the most intelligent, 
creative, ingenious, innovative; and also the most restless, 
agitated and destructive. Thus, society's hope for the future can 
either be actualized or dashed in the same degree to which it 
takes the youth. Thirdly, for continuity and development, both 
society and its youth need each other to advance the course of 
humanity.
Evolution of the Idea of National Service
While we acknowledge the existence of the idea of service in all 
societies in the world, historically documented evidence of the 
practice of National Service has been traced to the Roman 
Empire around the 5th century BC, when a popular Roman 
General advocated a system where young men from different 
social backgrounds could be brought together for a period of 
time, during which they get to socialize and know themselves, 
given military training and taught the virtues of discipline, 
commitment and service to the Empire in friendship and the 
11 
mutuality of purpose. Most precolonial African nations also 
practiced this system as part of their ideology of nation-building. 
In the Zulu nation under Shaka for example, to become an impis 
(a fighter in the Zulu army) as a young man, one has to 
undergone a process of training and re- training which included, 
inter alia, isolation from the general public for a long period of 
time, total integration into the age-regiments and exhaustive 
capacity building, including training on the new technique of 
12 
warfare. The idea of National Service was again resurrected 
11 
T. Plutach, “Plutarch's Life of Coriolanus”, Plutarch Lives, Vol. 1 (Random House, 1992).12 
E. A. Rither, Shaka Zulu (London: Longman Books, 1955); And J. D. Omer-Cooper, “The 
Mfecane and Great Trek”, in Africa in the Nineteenth and Twentieth Centuries (Ibadan: 
Ibadan University Press, 1966), pp. 357-378.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 202024
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

during the Second World War, when some nations codified it as 
part of the process of defending themselves. In 1939 for example, 
the United Kingdom National Service Act of 1939 was passed 
with the objective of enforcing conscription of all male British 
subjects between the ages of 18-41 to achieve this objective as a 
13 
matter of core national interest. Other European countries like 
France, Germany, Denmark and Norway soon followed and 
domesticated and popularized it in subsequent decades.
Table 2: Showing Selected Cases of National Service Programs
Source: Author's compilation from several sources, 2020
13 
See “National Service (Armed Forces) Act 1939”, Hamsard.millbansystems.com. 
Retrieved 15 December 2020. Also consult Richard Vinen, “National Service: 
Conscription in Britain 1945-1963”, The Guardian (20 August,  2014). Retrieved on 15 
December 2020
THE IDEA OF NATIONAL SERVICE: GLOBAL PERSPECTIVES 25
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Globally, modern nations have adopted different variants of 
National Service according to their historical experiences. These 
go by different names and are operated in accordance with the 
core values of such nations and the depth and extent of nation- 
building challenges they are designed to address. As indicated 
in figure 1 above, it is possible to categorize National Service 
broadly into three types. The first and earliest type is what is 
generally referred to as Compulsory Military Service or 
Conscription (CMS). In France during the revolution in the 
1790s, compulsory military service was the basis of the vastness 14 
and strength of the French military. The practice was further 
deepened in the Napoleonic years, when compulsory 15 
conscription became a national policy. With time, the system 
spread across most parts of Europe and was to remain till the last 
quarter of the 20th century. The Federal Republic of Germany for 
example, practiced CMS for male citizens from 1956 to 2011, 
when conscription was put in abeyance as part of the need to 
professionalize and modernize the German military and fully 16
subject it to civilian authority.
By far and till date, Israel and North Korea present classic st 
examples of this category of National Service in the 21 century. 
In Israel, CMS of at least one or two years is mandatory for 17 
citizens above the age of 18. Hostilities from its Arab neighbors 
in the Middle East following the establishment of the state of 
14 
Sidney Painter, French Chivalry: Chivalric Ideas and Practices in Medieval France 
(Baltimore: Johns Hopkins Press, 1940);15 
It is often argued that the strength of Napoleon Bonaparte's military laid in the policy of 
compulsory military conscription which ensured the regular supply of fighting troops to 
his military. Every conquered territory was a potential source of soldiers through this 
policy. For details of this consult J. H. Rose, The Life of Napoleon, I (New York: The 
Macmillan Company, 1902); And Gorge Rude, Revolutionary Europe, 1783-1815 (New 
York: Harper Torchbooks, 1966).16 th 
William Carr, A History of Germany: 1814-190 4 Edition (New York and London: 
Routledge, 1991); and Frank B. Tipson, A History of Modern Germany Since 1815 
(California: University of California Press, 2003).17
Although we should add that there is also voluntary national service anchored by 
religious bodies and social workers. For details see S. D. M Eberly (ed.), The Moral 
Equivalent of War? A Study on non-Military Service in Nine Nations (Westport, CT: 
Greenwood, 1990); And Moshe Sherer, “National Service in Israel: Motivations, 
Volunteer Characteristics, and Levels of Content” hhttt//www. Journals.sagepub.com. 
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 202026
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Israel in 1948 predisposed subsequent Israeli leaders to heavily 18 
invest in a strong military to defend itself. As part of this 
process, mandatory conscription was adopted as a national 
policy that was to crystalize into the establishment of a “People's 
Army” in Israel. In North Korea, almost all able-bodied men in 
the country are required to serve in the army for 18 months by 19
the time they are 28 years.
As a centralized state under a dictatorship, military service is 
highly valued and in fact considered a mark of profound 
solidarity with the nation. Norway, Sweden and the United 
Arab Emirates are examples of other countries where CMS is still 
practiced.
The second variant of National Service is the Mandatory 
Service Scheme (MSS) which although compulsory for certain 
categories of people, is generally directed at citizenship and 
social capital formation and development, in addition to public 
work. The German scholar, Eugen Rosenstock-Huessy, 
articulated a global vision of the idea of National Service when 
he conceptualized it as a way of strengthening ties among the 
people of the world. In 1912, he vigorously advocated the 
engagement of young people in activities that would promote 20 
national development and the betterment of the world. The 
contributions of the youth to the development of their respective 
nations and global interactions among youth services may be 
regarded as products of this idea.
This variant of National Service is quite popular in the 
United States where, for example, President Franklin Roosevelt, 
in 1933, institutionalized the opportunity for US citizens to serve 
their country by creating the Civilian Conservative Corps (CCC) 
to mitigate the vagaries of the Great Depression. As part of his 
18 
Y. Allon, The Making of Israel's Army (Vallentine, Mitchell, London, 1970); Y. Allon, Shield 
of David: The Making of Israel's Armed Forces (Vallentine, Mitchell/Weidenfeld and Ncolson, 
London, 1970); And Chaim Herzog, The Arab-Israeli Wars: War and Peace in the Middle East 
from the War of Independence through Lebanon (New York: Vintage Books, 1984).19 
Kim Chong-min, “Conscription System and Soldiers' Lives in North Korea”, Pukhan 
(August 1999), 134-145; Chong Yong-tae, Internal and External Perceptions of North Korean 
Army (Seoul: Korean Institute for National Unification, 2008); Robert L. Worden (ed.), North 
Korea: A Country Study (Washington: Government Printing Office, 2008).20 
Eugen Rosenstock-Huessy, Multiformity of Man (Norwich, Vermont: Argo Books, 1973)
THE IDEA OF NATIONAL SERVICE: GLOBAL PERSPECTIVES 27
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

New Deal Policy, this public work relief program enlisted men 
of between 18-24 years, placed them on a minimum wage and 
provided them food and shelter and who in turn, were available 
to discharge responsibilities given to them by government 21 
agencies. There are other good examples of this type of 
National Service in the developing countries. In India, Prime 
Minster Minister Jawaharlal Nehru set up the National Service 
Scheme in September 1969 as a credible platform for mobilizing 
students, under the supervision of their teachers, to be directly 22 
involved in the tasks of national development. The Indian NSS 
is anchored on the philosophy of skills acquisition and tailored 
towards addressing practical development challenges 
confronting the people. Similarly, in Nigeria after the Nigerian 
Civil War, General Yakubu Gowon established the National 
Youth Service Corps in 1973 to address the challenges of nation 23 
building. Other examples of the MSS in Africa include the 
Tanzania National Youth Scheme (an offshoot of the youth wing 
of the Tanganyika Union, 1963), the Ethiopian University 
Service established in 1964, the Ghana Youth Service Scheme 
(1973), the Tirelosheba of Botswana (1980), Cote D'Ivoire 
National Civic Service (1997) and the Zambian National Youth 
Service (first introduced in 1963, abolished and re-introduced in 
2005), to mention just a few significant ones.
21 
This was proscribed in 1942, although other service schemes were introduced to address 
challenges as they emerged. In 1993 for instance, faced with the challenges of recession as 
US President, Bill Clinton established the AmeriCorps which was expanded to include 
Peace Corps and Volunteers in Service to America (VISTA) in subsequent years.22 
The Indian NSS began with 40, 000 students in 37 universities all over the country, but 
today after 50 years, it has over 3.8 million student volunteers across universities. It remains 
a core government scheme under the aegis of the Ministry Youth Affairs and Sports in 
Universities, colleges and schools. For details see H. H. Parmar, “The Role of National 
Service Scheme: An Opportunity for Youth to Contribute to Nation-Building” in National 
Service Scheme and Nation Building, Vol. 7, Issue 4, (March 2019), pp. 34-37; And S. K. 
Shashanks, “National Service Scheme: An Under Utilized Arm of Nation-Building”, Youth 
Journal, (12 November, 2018). 23
Godwin O. Odeh, Nigeria NYSC's Role in the Founding of The Gambian National Youth 
Service, 1996-2004 , A PhD Dissertation Submitted to the Department of History and 
International Studies, Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, 2019; And National Youth Service th 
Corps Year Book, 40 Anniversary Commemorative Edition, (Abuja: NYSC National Directorate 
Headquarters, 2013). The details of this are discussed n the next segment of this chapter.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 202028
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The third, and for now, the last type of National Service in 
the conceptual scheme we have formulated for analytical 
purposes, is the Volunteer National Service (VNS). This appears 
to be the most popular type of National Service because it is 
voluntary; in the sense that it is not compulsory or mandatory 
like the first two types. Driven on the logic of service to humanity 
through serving the people, the community or the nation; the 
VNS has no age limit (although it draws its membership from 
youth organisations) and it is most popular during moments of 24 
natural or man-made emergencies. Outside moments of crises, 
they assist government agencies in enlightenment and advocacy 
activities essential for national development. The NVS has been 
associated with the notion of “volunteerism”, itself a concept 
subjected to a myriad of definitions. While acknowledging this 
fact, we are inclined to accept the one offered by the 
International Labour Organisation and the John Hopkins State 
University, which refers to it as:
Unpaid non-compulsory work; that is, the time 
individuals give without pay to activities performed 
either through an organization or directly through 25
others outside their own household.
From the above, it is clear that volunteers in the VNS are never 
expected to receive any kind of monetary compensation, but are 
sometimes given stipends to help off-set living expenses and/or 
reimbursements to cover expenses incurred in the cause of 26
service.
In addition, the NVS is operated on a code of conduct to 
which members are required to mandatorily abide. Indeed, to 
ensure such strict compliance, it is usually regulated by state 
agencies or affiliate bodies. The United Nations Volunteers (UNV) 
24 
S. D. M Eberly (ed.), The Moral Equivalent of War?. Also see Moshe Sherer, “National 
Service in Israel: Motivations, Volunteer Characteristics, and Levels of Content”.25 
Available     at:         
http://www.ilo.org/wcmsp5/groups/public...dgreports/...integration/
...stat/documents/publication/wcms_162119.pdf.    Retrieved    on    17/12/202026 
CIVICUS: World Alliance for Citizenship Participation, “Civil Society Volunteerism 
Patterns in Africa: An Analysis of CIVICUS Civil Society Index, 2008-2011”.
THE IDEA OF NATIONAL SERVICE: GLOBAL PERSPECTIVES 29
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

program, International Federation of Red Cross and Red 
Crescent Societies, and their affiliates, have continued to explore 
types of volunteer action and formulated a framework on 
st 27 
volunteering practices in the 21 century. This framework 
acknowledges the existence of the notion of volunteerism in all 
nations of the world and broadly classifies them into two: the 
formal type, which operates within the confines of government 
agencies, and the informal type operated by individuals moved 
by human compassion to serve humanity. On this basis, it teases 
out at least six voluntary organization types as follows: charities, 
foundations, social welfare organisations, advocacy groups, 
faith-based organisations and recreational sports groups. There 
are also international, national and local variants of these bodies. 
The VNS resonates with humanity at every stage of its 
development: be it pre-modern, modern and postmodern. In its 
most modern form, it has been related with the First and 
particularly the Second World War during which the pains and 
agonies of these conflicts overwhelmed nations of the world. 
During this period, nations appealed to their citizens to either 
enlist in formal or direct volunteer services. From that period till 
date, the VNS and its replicas have continued to proliferate 
across all societies (see Table 1), performing duties which have 
profoundly impacted human existence. It is therefore not 
surprising why these forms of National Service are highly 
regarded globally.
4. The Context of the Nigerian National Youth Service Corps 
Scheme
The preceding foray into the idea of National Service is 
deliberately intended as a background to the understanding of 
our experience with the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) 
scheme. What were the developments that made the NYSC 
27 
J. Butcher and C. J. Einolf (eds.), Perspectives on Volunteering: Voices from the South 
(Switzerland: Springer); And UNV, Volunteering Practices in the Twenty-First Century 
(London: United Kingdom, 2020) International, 2017)
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 202030
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

institutionalization inevitable? What purpose was it designed to 
serve and to what extent has it served this? Generally, the idea of 
the NYSC is believed to have emerged from the events that led to 
the Nigerian thirty months civil war (fought between 1967 and 
28 
1970). Commentators argue that it was the mismanagement of 
the country's multiculturalism by the ruling elites that led to the 
needless civil war, in the first place. The civil war was an 
eloquent testimony of the fragility of the colonialism-inspired 
modern nation-states in Africa which were generally prone to 
ethno-religious antagonism and conflicts. 
Emphasizing this point, J. O'Connel in 1967 formulated his 
“the inevitability of instability” thesis in which he forcefully 
argues that (i) the boundaries of African nations were dawn 
arbitrarily by the colonial powers and that the ethnically and 
politically diverse peoples grouped together under the artificial 
boundaries were only held together by the force of a powerful, 
authoritarian and externally colonial power; (ii) that these ethnic 
divisions and social cleavages re-asserted themselves very 
powerfully as the competition for state power and other public 
resources deepened just before and after independence; And (iii) 
that the political elites who inherited power from the departing 
colonial rulers, having themselves been brought up under the 
authoritarian tradition of the colonial state, and having come to 
power under various ethnic platforms, lacked the state-craft 
skill-set to handle these ethnic conflicts, and so relied on 
28
For more on the Nigerian Civil War read: A. Ademoyega, Why We Struck: The Story of the 
First Nigerian Coup, Ibadan: 1975; O. Obasanjo My Command (Ibadan: 1980); O. Obasanjo, 
Nzeogwu, Ibadan: 1987; A. Madiebo, The Nigerian Revolution and the Biafran War(Enugu: 
1980); F. Oyewole, The Reluctant Rebel, (Akure: 1977); J. O. G. Achuzia, Requiem Biafra 
(Enugu: 1986);
D. Jemibowen, A Combatant in Government , (Ibadan: 1978); B. Gbulie , Nigeria's Five 
Majors(Onitsha: 1981); J. Garba, Revolution in Nigeria: Another View, (London: 1968); R. B. 
Alade, The Broken Bridge, Ibadan: 1975; J. J. Oluleye, Military Leadership in Nigeria: 1966- 
1979,(Ibadan: 1985); And L A. Mazi S. Ohuabuna, M O. Thompson (eds), The Nigerian 
1966 Coup and Biafra: Myths and Realities, (Enugu: Fourth Dimension, 2018).
THE IDEA OF NATIONAL SERVICE: GLOBAL PERSPECTIVES 31
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

mediocrity, corruption and ethnic politics of divide and rule in 29 
order to survive. The result was that national ideals were 
whittled down and the emerging African nation-states suffered 
legitimacy deficit which culminated into civil wars.
In Nigeria, the civil war underscored the urgent need for the 
State and its ruling elite to invest heavily in the project of 
national consciousness, creating a new political culture and 
inspiring Nigerians to greater national ideals and commitment. 
The war had created an almost chaotic post-civil war situation 
requiring the intervention of the State. Although at the end of the 
war, the Nigerian military leadership had declared that there 30 
was “no victor or vanquished” as a basis for a national rebirth,
the social cost of the war was indeed huge. It was partly to 
address these challenges that the State announced its post-civil 
war policy of Reconciliation, Rehabilitation and Reconstruction, 
all aimed at rebuilding the country, promoting national unity 31 
and mitigating future social conflicts of such magnitude. But in 
order to achieve this goal, a crop of Nigerians were required to 
drive the national reconciliation and rebirth program. Two 
critical institutions were established for this purpose: the first 
was the NYSC, established on 4th may 1973 and the second was 
the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS) set 
up six years later in 1979. While the former was targeted at 
29 
J. O'Connel, “The Inevitability of Instability”, Journal of Modern African Studies, Vol. 5, No. 2 
(1967). For more on this see Shehu Musa, “Ethnicity, Social Cohesion and National 
Integration”, in Round-Table Meeting on Ethnicity in Nigeria: Implications for National 
Development (Kuru: National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies Kuru, 1983); Steven 
Nkom,”The Social Basis for National Integration in Nigeria”, in Abdullahi Mahadi and 
George A. Kwanashie, et al (eds.), Nigeria: The State of the Nation and the Way Forward (Kaduna: 
Arewa House, 1994), pp.430-444 ; And Matthew Kukah, “Religion and the Politics of 
National Integration”, in Abdullahi Mahadi and George A. Kwanashie, et al (eds.), Nigeria: 
The State of the Nation and the Way Forward (Kaduna: Arewa House, 1994), pp. 445-458.30 
Jonah I. Elaigwu, Gowon (Ibadan: West Books Publishers Limited, 1986); E. Osagahe and E.
Onwudiwe, et al (eds.) The Nigerian Civil War and its Aftermath (Ibadan: John Archer 
Publishers Limited, 2002); And Armstrong M. Adejo (ed.). The Nigerian Civil War, Forty Years 
After: What Lessons (Ibadan: Historical Society of Nigeria,2008)31
Okpeh O. Okpeh, “Post Civil War Reconstruction in West Africa: A Comparative Study 
Nigeria under General Yakubu Gowon and Liberia under Charles Taylor”, in Toyin Falola 
and Raphael C. Njoku (eds.), War And Peace in Africa , Durham, North Carolina: Carolina 
University Press, 2010, pp. 325-350.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 202032
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Nigerian youth, considered the nation's future, the second 
focused on the fairly elderly, serving and retired officers, 
technocrats, diplomats and administrators.
However, it should be pointed out that the idea of a national 
scheme in Nigeria was also partly aroused by Nigerian diaspora 
in the United States and the United Kingdom long before the 
civil war broke out. This crop of Nigerians were genuinely 
troubled by the divisive politics of the ruling elites which 
undermined the prospects of the First Republic and sought ways 
of mitigating it. Series of meetings were convened at the end of 
which a proposal was forwarded to the Prime Minister, 
Abubakar Tafawa Balewa, on the need to establish a Peace Corp 32 
patterned after the one in the US before the January 1966 coup.
This group of concerned Nigerians again forwarded the 
document to General Johnson Aguyi-Ironsi, but as fate would 
have it, he was so immersed in the crisis of the period that he had 
little or no time to consider it prior the counter-coup of July 1966 
that overthrew his regime and eventually claimed his life. Soon 
after the war, the idea of a national scheme was again mooted 
and this time, it received the blessing of the Head of State, 
General Yakubu Gowon.  nd 
Arising from this, Decree No. 24 of 22 May 1973, abrogated th 
by Decree No. 51 of 16 June 1993, now known as NYSC ACT 
CAP N84 Laws of the Federation 2004, proclaimed the 33 
establishment of the NYSC. The objectives of the scheme are as 
follows:
(i) To inculcate discipline in Nigerian Youth by instilling in 
them a tradition of industry at work and of patriotic and 
loyal service to the Nation in any situation they may find 
themselves;
32 
Interviews: Gregory Kas Enegwea, c. 76 years interviewed in Abuja by Dr. Godwin O. 
Odey, 28/04/2018. Enegwea was to head the team of the NYSC experts sent to the 
Gambia in 1996 to study the aim and expected outcomes of the Gambian National Youth 
Service Scheme.33 
The National Youth Service Corps, The National Youth Service Corps Year Book, 45th 
Anniversary Commemorative Edition (Abuja: NYSC National Directorate Headquarters,   
2018). We must add that these objectives have been reviewed several times by the NYSC 
Headquarters, although
the core issues of unity and national integration remains constant.
THE IDEA OF NATIONAL SERVICE: GLOBAL PERSPECTIVES 33
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

(ii) To raise the moral tone of the Nigerian Youth by giving 
them the opportunity to learn about higher ideals of 
national achievement, social and cultural improvement;
(iii) To develop in the Nigerian Youth, attitudes of mind, 
acquired through shared experience and suitable training, 
which will make them more amenable to mobilization in 
the national interest;
(iv) To enable Nigerian Youth acquire the spirit of self-reliance 
by encouraging them to develop skills for self- 
development;
(v) To contribute to the accelerated growth of the National 
Economy;
(vi) To develop common ties among the Nigerian Youth and 
promote National Unity and integration
(vii) To remove prejudices, eliminate ignorance and confirm at 
first hand the many similarities among Nigerians of all 
ethnic groups; And
(viii) To develop a sense of corporate existence and common 34
destiny of the people of Nigeria.
Mobilized corps members are expected to swear an oath of 
allegiance to serve the nation with commitment and dedication, 
as is evident in fig 2. This pledge expectedly binds them to the 
ideals of the scheme and keeps them focused on national 
assignment throughout the period of service. We should add 
that this form of regimentation of the scheme is what has made 
some observers to push the argument that the NYSC is created in 
the image of the Nigerian military and it is operated in 35
accordance with some of its rules of conduct.
34 
The National Youth Service Corps, The National Youth Service Corps Year Book, 45th 
Anniversary Commemorative Edition, p. 20.35 
Godwin O. Odeh, for example has called for the demilitarization of the NYSC Director 
Generalship as the first step towards the total transformation of the scheme in 
accordance with the prevailing democratic dispensation. This, he argues, would 
reposition the scheme and make more responsive to the challenges of the 21st century. 
For details see Godwin O. Odeh, “Demilitarizing and Democratizing the Appointment 
of NYSC Director General” in Osakwe and Tangbban, et al, (eds).
3
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 202034
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

A cursory look at the above objectives and the related NYSC 
pledge would reveal the fact that the scheme was indeed a 
product of profound introspection by its founders. As an 
instrument for enhancing national consciousness, unity and 
integration, it may well be driven by globally established and 
acknowledged body of philosophical ideas on National Service. 
Three of these are critical and should be noted as follows: (i) 
National Service as moral equivalent of war; (ii) National Service 
as service-learning, and (iii); National Service as a way of 
mobilising and stimulating solidarity among peoples of 
different socio-cultural backgrounds for higher national 
aspirations. It is for these reasons that some scholars have 
consistently acknowledged its essence as a national institution 
and advocated for its strengthening in our national life along 36 
with others like NIPSS. The justification for such reasoning 
could be gleaned from the contributions of the scheme to 
national development, a theme we turn to in the next segment of 
this chapter.
6 
Arthur A. Nwankwo, National Consciousness for Nigeria.
THE IDEA OF NATIONAL SERVICE: GLOBAL PERSPECTIVES 35
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC Scheme and National Development
Ali Mazrui, the renown Kenyan political philosopher, once 
argued that the challenge of nation-building confronting 
contemporary Africa is fourfold: (i) how to indigenise what is 
foreign (ii) how to idealise what was indigenous, (iii) how to 
nationalise what was sectional and ethnic and (iv) how to 37 
emphasise what was African. Embedded in this conception of 
the nation-building challenges is the all important question of 
the weak, dysfunctional, near or complete absence of strong 
institutions pervading the continent and why this must be 
mitigated for sustainable development to happen. The point is, 
strong or viable institutions benchmark and drive development, 
and until contemporary African nations and their leaders 
understand this, the continent and its peoples still have a long 
way to go in the backwaters of underdevelopment. In addition, 
and as we pointed out at the beginning, national consciousness 
and total solidarity with the nation cannot occur outside the 
institutionalization of national values to which all or a greater 
number of citizens subscribe or identify with. It must be a 
deliberate State policy which should be nurtured like the very 
idea of the nation.
It is against the above backdrop that we would attempt to 
explain the contributions of the NYSC scheme as a national 
institution which has contributed immensely to the project of 
nation-building in Nigeria since it was established 47 years ago. 
First, the scheme has remained the greatest and most effective 
instrument for youth mobilisation in postcolonial Nigeria. 
Yearly and since the decade of its establishment in the 1970s, the 
scheme mobilizes hundreds of thousands of youths across the 
country to avail themselves for national service. Indeed, there is 
no part of the country today that corps members are not found: 
from the most remote parts of the North to the creeks of the 
Niger Delta, corps members abound. By virtue of its structure 
and the philosophy underpinning its operations, the scheme has 
done very well in instilling discipline, focus and the highest 
37 
Ali A. Mazrui, Cultural Engineering and Nation-Building in Kenya (Evanston, 1972), p. 7-10.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 202036
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

sense of purpose in the nation's youths. As eloquently captured 
by Brigadier General Ibrahim, the current Director General of 
the Scheme:
Youth are critical agents of change and social 
transformation in all human societies. In focusing on 
youth mobilization, the founders of the NYSC envisaged a 
pivotal role for Nigerian youth in the development 
process. I can confidently tell you that the NYSC, more 
than any other public institution in this country, has done 
exceedingly well in positively organizing Nigerian youth 
for national aspirations and development. This is an 
incontrovertible fact, but unfortunately, one that is hardly 38
acknowledged by many Nigerians.
Another area from which the contributions of the NYSC can be 
viewed is in the important sphere of national integration. 
Nigeria is a multi-cultural polity with not less than 350 ethnic 
nationalities at different levels of development fused together by 
history. Managing this mosaic of ethnic nationalities has been a 
herculean challenge that is at the very basis of the country's 
continued existence, what is sometimes referred to as the 39 
National Question. Since its inception, the NYSC has been at the 
forefront of promoting cross-cultural consanguinity, integration 
and cohesion amongst Nigerians. The notion of the orientation 
camps where corps members are kept for weeks and pristine 
policy of posting corps members outside their states of origin 
have greatly helped Nigerians to appreciate the history, cultures 
and traditions of other Nigerians, thereby smoothening cultural 
38 
Interviews: Shuabu Ibrahim, 55 years, Military Officer, interviewed on 15/07/2020.39 
For more on the national Question, read: Crawford Young, The Politics of Cultural 
Pluralism (Madison: The University of Wisconsin, 1993); Eghosa E. Osahae and Ebere 
Onwudiwe (eds.), The Management of the National Question in Nigeria (Ibadan: Programme 
on Ethnic and Federal Studies, 2001); Nankin Bagudu and Dakas C. J. Dakas (eds.), The 
Right to be Different: Perspectives on Minority Rights, the Cultural Middle Belt and 
Constitutionalism in Nigeria (Jos: League of Human Rights, 2001); Okpeh O. Okpeh, Jr., (ed.), 
The Sovereign National Conference (Makurdi: Aboki Publishers, 2003); And Yakubu A. 
Ochefu and Okpeh O. Okpeh, Jr. et al (eds), Historical Consciousness, Social Engineering and 
Nation-Building in Nigeria (Historical Society of Nigeria, 2014);
THE IDEA OF NATIONAL SERVICE: GLOBAL PERSPECTIVES 37
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

fault lines and promoting unity in diversity. Discussing this 
point, the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, Ojaja II 
points out that:
[the] NYSC is one the few programmes that have helped 
in keeping Nigeria together as one indivisible entity. The 
exposure young Nigerians gained during National 
Service has gone a long way to foster harmony among 
people of diverse backgrounds. It is gratifying to note the 
numerous inter-tribal marriages that have taken place as a 40
result of couples meeting during the NYSC programme.
Indeed, the experiences of corps members during the service 
year have helped to shape their perceptions of the “Tower of 
Barbel” called Nigeria. Not only do they understand its 
historical evolution, but they have often come to appreciate the 
cultural differences and, more importantly, similarities of its 
peoples. Through such processes, cultures interface with one 
another, coalesce and eventually evolve and integrate in 
Nigeria. This cannot be taken for granted because no cultural 
group in any geopolitical entity can exist in isolation from 
others, its resource endowments notwithstanding.
By far, the most widely acknowledged contribution of the 
NYSC to nation-building is in the sphere of quality manpower 
provisioning for the development of the country. Since the 
scheme focuses on mobilizing youth as agents of societal 
transformation, it cannot but be observed that it is a critical 
stakeholder in the Nigerian project. Emphasizing this important 
point, HRH Oba Babatude Adewale Ajayi, the Akarigbo of 
Remoland avers that:
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), since inception 
and through its mandate, has contributed to the 
development of the physical, moral and intellectual 
40   
National Youth Service Corp, NYSC  Year Book: 45th Commemorative Edition, p.61
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 202038
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

growth of Nigerian youth, thereby giving them the 
opportunity to contribute their quota to the overall 
national development. In raising an army of vibrant and 
knowledgeable youths, the NYSC reserves as the largest 
man-power resource which has impacted significantly on 
41
the development of Nigeria.
Corps members straddle every sector of the nation's society and 
economy, displaying raw talent, creativity, ingenuity and 
innovation. Both the public and private sectors have, over the 
last four decades, consistently and maximally tapped into this to 
optimize their productivity and enhance service delivery 
capacity from the lowest to the highest levels. The evidence of 
this can be gleaned from the way corps members keep winning 
merit and excellence awards in their places of primary 
assignments in recognition of their commitment and dedication 
to service. Responding to a question in this regard, General 
Ibrahim expressed with contentment that:
Corps members are everywhere in the nooks and crannies 
of this country. Even in the Escravos you see our corps 
members either working as medical doctors, nurses, 
medical laboratory scientists/technicians and so on. Also, 
the history of elections in this country cannot be complete 
without the NYSC ... Corps members are knowledgeable, 
smarter and can be held accountable. This is why corps 
members are always used for the conduct of elections in 
42
Nigeria.
One important area corps members have demonstrated 
uncommon dedication to serving the country is in their 
contribution to rural development. By rural development here 
we are referring to the process of transforming the quality of life 
41 
National Youth Service Corp, NYSC  Year Book:  45th Commemorative Edition, p.81.42   
Interviews: Shuabu Ibrahim, 55 years, Military Officer, interviewed on 15/07/2020. 
Similarly see NYSC, NYSC News: Journal of NYSC (Directorate Headquarters, 
APMAJU522020), 2020, pp. 68-74.
THE IDEA OF NATIONAL SERVICE: GLOBAL PERSPECTIVES 39
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

43 
and economic well-being of people living in rural areas. The 
rural areas in Nigeria houses between 75-80% of the total 
population of the country; it also produces approximately 80-44 
95% of the food and other needs of the country. Yet over the 
years, life in the country's rural areas have been stagnant and 
characterized by a vacuous existence as a result of which the 
rural dwellers are largely traumatized by poverty, hunger, 
destitution and diseases; as well as neglected. Through its 
policies on Area of Primary Assignment and particularly 
Community Development Service (CDS), the NYSC has since 
inception, brought government closer to the rural dwellers. 
Corps members through their group and personal projects, 
initiate and execute projects such as library building, bore- hole, 
bus-stop stands, roads and culverts constructions; as well as 
public conveniences rehabilitation, to mention just a few. In 
addition, they carry out humanitarian activities, public 
awareness and enlightenment campaigns on government 
policies and programs, advocacy and intervention initiatives 
which have changed the narratives of the rural areas in the 
country.
The NYSC Leadership Training and Skills Acquisition and 
Entrepreneurship Development programs have also immensely 
added value to the rural dwellers, who are the greatest 
beneficiaries of the jobs being created through the 
entrepreneurial activities of corps members. The remarkable 
increase in rural job creation in contemporary Nigeria remains a 
glaring achievement of the efficacy of these programs in tackling 45
unemployment in the country.
43 
See, Onigu Otite , “Rural Nigeria” in Onigu Otite and Christine Okali (eds.), Readings in Rural 
Sociology and Rural Economy (Ibadan: Heinemann Educational Books, 1990), pp13-22. Also see 
S. K. Williams, Rural Development in Nigeria (Ibadan: Ibadan University Press, 1974);
O. Ijere, Leading Issues in Rural Development (Enugu: Acena Publishers, 1992); And Mike O. 
Odey, Food Crop Production, Hunger, and Rural Poverty in Nigeria's Benue Area, 1920-1995 
(Durham, North Carolina: Carolina Academic Press, 2011).44 
Okpeh O. Okpeh, Jr. “The Rural Woman and the Women Empowerment Question in Nigeria: 
A Reflection on Some Issues”, in African Journal of Environmental Law and Development Studies, 
Vol. 1, 2005, pp.99-113.45 
S. Stroud, National Youth Service, Employability, Entrepreneurship and Sustainable Livelihoods: 
Overview of the National Youth Service Landscape in Sub-Saharan Africa .(2013),Accessed 17/12 
2020.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 202040
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Today we have a new crop of entrepreneurs that are 
employers of labour and not job-seekers swelling the army of the 
unemployed on our streets. Again, commenting on this, General 
Ibrahim has this to say:
The NYSC SAED and other related programs are actually 
doing incredibly well, especially in the areas of the 
production of employers of labour and more importantly, 
the creation of new jobs. Through the businesses ex-corps 
members have established, the country is experiencing a 
new development in which a generation of profitable 
business owners are emerging and redefining the nation's 
long history of reliance on the oil sector. We must 
emphasize that the 21st century belongs to this new 
generations of business men and women. Armed with 
creativity, ingenuity and an information technology 
enabled organizational skill-set, they will certainly re- 
write the economic history of this great country. Welcome 
46
to the new Nigeria!
Conclusion
Globally, nations exist on the basis of national consciousness 
which defines the depth and extent of citizens' patriotic 
identification with them. Every nation creates its own national 
values and institutions in which its core national interests are 
reflected and to which its citizens are committed. The idea of 
National Service is a critical component of citizens' expressive 
solidarity with national ideals. As an ideology, it defines 
national goals and aspirations and creates the basis for the 
individual's unquestionable loyalty to his/her nation. Thus, it 
exists and is operationalized across nations all over the world as 
a veritable platform for the expression of faith and the 
demonstration of commitment to the sovereignty of a country. 
In Nigeria, the NYSC since inception in 1973, represents the most 
46   
Interviews:Shuabu Ibrahim, 55 years, Military Officer, interviewed on 15/17/2020.
THE IDEA OF NATIONAL SERVICE: GLOBAL PERSPECTIVES 41
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

formidable forum for the enlightened youth to express their 
solidarity and commitment to the unity of Nigeria. As we have 
shown in the preceding paragraphs, throughout its 47 years of 
existence, the scheme has served the purpose of mobilizing the 
nation's youths, training and equipping them to creditably and 
more effectively tackle the challenges of nation-building.
Although the NYSC scheme and the ideas underpinning its 
existence have undergone tremendous changes and 
transformation over the decades, there are still rooms for 
rejigging in light of emerging development challenges the 
Nigerian nation is grappling with. It would seem the gains the 
scheme recoded in the areas of uniting the country before 1999 
are being reversed with the deepening and expansion of the 
democratic space since 1999. Religious bigotry and divisive 
politics which have consistently characterized the struggle for 
political power between the elites have undermined the 
corporeality of the nation. Today, we are confronted with the 
challenge of insurgency and discordant agitations for self-
determination in virtually all the geo-political zones in the 
country. The NYSC scheme must appropriately respond to this 
challenge in ways that would calm frail nerves across the 
country. Using the instrumentality of its philosophy and 
intervention programs, the scheme should renew its 
commitment to national ideals, by strengthening corps 
members' capacity to engage patriotic advocacy with zeal, vigor 
and fervour. In addition, the ideology of national integration 
which the scheme propagates must move beyond mere 
campaigns. The NYSC Directorate should initiate concrete and 
strategic alliance with relevant government agencies and 
47
professional bodies to implement some of its lofty ideas.
47 
For example, we are yet to see any practical relationship between the Scheme and the 
National Orientation Agency, National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies and 
Professional organizations like the Historical Society of Nigeria and the Philosophers' 
Association of Nigeria, etc, all of which are critical to the national rebirth agenda of the 
current administration.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 202042
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Nation-building is an unending serious business to 
which nations and their leaders must commit quantum 
resources and time. As our development challenges in the 
21st century are being compounded by the COVID-19 
pandemic, new strategies must be brought to bear in order 
to stay above board. While the NYSC's response to the 
pandemic through the gallant activities of its corps 
members across the country is commendable, we must add 
that because it reserves the biggest monopoly of quality 
manpower repository in the country, a lot of networking 
would be required in the area of corps members posting for 
effectiveness. Employers of labor in the public and private 
sectors still reject corps members on posting to their 
establishments. Certainly, there must be something corps 
members on posting to any place or establishment can do 
and should be engaged to do. On the whole, we conclude 
that the NYSC scheme is a worthy idea which has 
contributed to the development of Nigeria. Indeed, 
judging by the philosophy undergirding it and the 
performance of corps members so far, it remains a true 
national monument from which every part of the country 
has directly or indirectly benefited. The scheme should be 
sustained and strengthened to continue to fulfill its 
onerous mandate to the nation.
THE IDEA OF NATIONAL SERVICE: GLOBAL PERSPECTIVES 43
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Chapter Three
THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NATIONAL 
YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME IN 
NIGERIA
Jacinta Chiamaka Nwaka
Department of History and 
International Studies
Introduction
The need to mobilize youths for national service locally and 
internationally has been a global trend since the Twentieth 1 
Century. Though functional in some developed world before 2 
and during the Second World War, it gained wide acceptance in 
other parts of the world as a mechanism for national unity and 
socio- economic development from the second half of the 3 
century. With the end of colonial rule, many independent states 
of Africa turned to national youth service scheme as a means of 
harnessing the resources of their youth for tackling socio-
economic problems and other challenges of the post-4 
independence era. The Ethiopian Students One Year 
Compulsory Rural Service, the National Service of Ghana Youth 
Pioneers, the Kenyan National Youth Service, The Malawi 
1 
Eberly portraying, the origin of national service as an alternative to military service linked its 
emergence to the pioneering role of William James, (John Dewey and Eugen Roseenstock Haessy) 
who in his Moral Equivalent of War speech in 1906 laid the foundation for civilian service to be 
undertaken not only by those who conscientiously decline from military engagements, but also by 
young people from all walks of life. William argued for conscription of the youthful population who, 
according to him, would be drafted off based on their preference to such places as coal mines and 
fishing fleets, “where they would get the childishness knocked out of them and return to their 
societies with healthier sympathies and soberer ideas.” Eberly D.J. (1994), “Youth Service and Human 
Heritage”, Paper Presented at the Second Global Conference on National Youth Service, Abuja.2 
The Civilian Conservative Corps (CCC) was set up in the United States following the Great 
Depression of the 1930s
to help provide constructive work for the youth at the time of mass unemployment. There were 
also, the Voluntary In-Service to America (VISITA) in the US, Graduate Voluntary Service and 3 
Cadet Voluntary Service, in Britain. Udende, P and Salaou, A. (2015) , “National Youth Service 
Corps Scheme and the Quest for National Unity and Development. A Public Relation Perspective “ 
Available at
 Accessed, 707/08/20.4 
Sanda, O.A. (1994) 'Youth Service and World Peace” Paper Presented on Second Global 
Conference on National Youth Service, Abuja.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Young Pioneers, the Ugandan National Union of Youth 
Organization, The Zambian Youth Service and the Tanzanian 
National Youth Service, were all established in appreciation of 
the uniqueness of youths' contributions towards nation-
building at a very critical period in the lives of these States. In 
Kenya, for instance, the National Youth Service was established 
in 1964 to see to the “training of young citizens to serve the 
nation, and the employment of its members in task of national 5 
importance, and otherwise in the service of the nation” In other 
words, the Kenyan scheme is primarily geared towards 
preparing its members for employability and for service 
towards national development. Similarly, Ethiopian National 
Service set up in 1964 required all university students to break 
their studies for one year before the final year to provide 
services, especially teaching services, in rural communities. 
Ghana's one-year post-graduate service and Malawi's Young 
Pioneer, in addition to other goals, equally reflected the need to 
address the problem of socio-economic development, especially 
unemployment by providing the youth with necessary training 
and experience. 
In addition to socio-economic development, the quest for 
national unity and integration forms another major driver of 
national youth service in Africa. Having inherited colonial 
boundaries and political structures, inter-ethnic relations were 
tension-ridden generating intense animosities that 
metamorphosed into civil wars in extreme cases. In state with 
such experiences, the quest for national unity dominated 
discussions on nation-building at a time and formed priorities 
vis-à-vis national policies and implementations. As Eberly and 
Gal have stressed, the importance of youth behavior in 6 
rebuilding post-conflict societies cannot be overemphasized.
Nigeria is one of the countries in Africa whose national youth 
5 
Griffin Gun, quoted in Onwere, Chioma, (1992), “National Youth Service Program and 
National Integration in Nigeria” PhD Dissertation , Institute of Education, University of 
London, p.179.6 
Eberly, D. J and Gal, R. (2007), “A Role for Young People in Building Post Conflict Civil 
Society” International Journal of Not-for –Profit Law Vol. 9, No. 4 Available at http:// 
www.icnc.org/research/journal/vol9iss4/special_3htm Accessed 07/08/20
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 202046
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

service program appeared to have zoomed largely from the 
quest for national integration after a protracted civil war. The 
aim of this work is to historicize the establishment of the 
National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) scheme in the country. In 
view of this, the work, which is sectionalized into three major 
parts, addresses the background to the establishment of the 
scheme, its establishment, and some key points of its instrument 
of actualization. All these are geared towards a better grasp of 
the forces behind and obstacles to the setting up of the scheme, 
its objectives, modus operandi and components at 
establishment, and the strength of the scheme as enshrined in its 
major instrument – the NYSC Act.
Antecedents to the Establishment of the National Youth 
Service Corps in Nigeria
Although motivation for the NYSC in Nigeria is generally 
associated with General Gowon's post-war policy 
implementation, events that culminated into the birth of the 
scheme pre-dated the post-war period. While there is no 
evidence of a precise date on which the call for such service was 
made, the idea seemed to have been suggested by some 
7 
Nigerians as far back as 1963. The need to do away with tribal 
segregation and reposition the minds of Nigerians towards 
national cohesion, deal with the high rate of unemployment, and 
mobilize young minds for nation-building were among the key 
8 
reasons for such a call. However, the clamour for national youth 
service scheme in the country took a centre stage from 1965 when 
other prominent Nigerians especially those of the university 
system – students and lecturers, began to mount pressure for the 
scheme. Desiring a scheme modeled after Nkrumah's Young 
Pioneers of Ghana, Nigerian students called on the authorities of 
7 
Tai Solarin in 1973 noted that he had earlier called for the establishment of the national 
youth service around that time. See Solarin Tai, (1973) “Thoughts of Tai Solarin: The 
Flaws in Our Youth Service Corps”, Nigerian Tribune, April 24, p.9.8
Ajiboye, Agunbiade, Solomon   1993, The National Youth Service Corps: Challenge to 
Government, the Youth and the Nigerian Society, (Ibadan: NISER, University of Ibadan)
THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NYSC SCHEME IN NIGERIA 47
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

their various universities to establish a form of youth service for 
9 
the nation. That such demand was popular among university 
students in the mid-1960s is evident in the request which, 
according to Agunbiade, was made by the students of the 
University of Ibadan to the then Prime Minister, Sir Abubakar 
Tafawa Balewa, who was on a visit to the University in 1965. In 
response to an appeal by the student leader to consider setting 
up a 'Young Volunteer Corps for both civilian and military 
purposes”, the Prime Minister remarked that students “are 
10
dangerous without guns”
Nigerian students appeared to have made their appeal for 
national youth service again in 1967 before the former leader of 
11 
the Nigerian Military Government, General Yakubu Gowon. In 
the same vein, the Committee of Vice Chancellors of Nigerian 
Universities favoured the scheme and was poised towards bold 
steps in this direction. The Committee, feeling that many sectors 
in Nigeria were neglected as a result of the movement of the 
youth to urban centers, thought it necessary to establish a 
scheme which would help to provide a reasonable spread of 
manpower in the country. Based on the reports of the panel it set 
up to examine the idea, the Committee of Vice Chancellors 
announced its plans to introduce the national youth service 
12 
program in 1971 for undergraduate in their penultimate year.
The Committee further invited Mr. Alec Dickson, former 
Principal of the Man O' War Bay Training Center, to give expert 
advice on details of the scheme. Dickson's report which was 
submitted in 1970 dealt with issues relating to the objectives, 
administration, training, scope of the scheme and allowance for 
9 
National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), (1983). Summative Evaluation Report of the Ten 
Years of National Youth Service Corps in Nigeria, (Lagos: Directorate of NYSC)10 
Quoted in Ajiboye, p.1.11   
Following a rumor that some students of the University of Nigeria Nsukka were 
drafted into the Biafran Army, a request was said to have come from the students on the 
Federal side to join the war as a form of national service.12 
Committee of Vice Chancellors, National Service Scheme for Nigerian Students, Report 
of the Working Panel, April, 1969.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 202048
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

13 
those that would be enrolled in the scheme.
Meanwhile, the Federal Military Government had 
commissioned a study enquiry in 1968 headed by LT. Col. 
Nicholas Ajayi Anyanru, to look into the probability of 
introducing a service corps for Nigeria; the report of the study 
committee did not only favour the national service scheme, it 
14 
suggested that such program should run on voluntary basis.
15 
Given the precarious situation in Nigeria at the time, it was 
anticipated that the service corps would be “concerned initially 
with relief, rehabilitation and reconstruction, but potentially 
becoming a permanent scheme for mobilizing Nigerian youth 
16 
for development tasks” There is no doubt that numerous public 
demands for such a scheme combined with the report of the 
government's study committee must have influenced 
government decision to take a bold step in the direction of 
national youth service at the end of the civil war.
Having identified ethnic suspicion, mass illiteracy, poverty 
and uneven distribution of the available manpower as parts of 
the major problems of the country after the war, the Federal 
Military Government pointed out five cardinal objectives of the 
Second National Development Plan (NDP) – a united strong and 
self-reliant nation; a great and dynamic economy, a just and 
egalitarian society, a land of full and bright opportunities for all 
17 
citizens, and a free and democratic society. General Yakubu 
Gowon's unshakeable conviction in the potential of the youth in 
achieving these goals informed the inclusion of the National 
Youth Service Corps in the NDP: 
13 
Alec Dickson's Report on National Service by Nigerian Students, August, 197014 
National Youth Service (1977), Evaluative Report on Four Years of NYSC Scheme, 
(Lagos: Directorate of NYSC)15 
Nigeria was engulfed in a thirty-month civil war (1967-1970) that got its land and 
population, especially in its former Eastern Region, devastated.16
Adenowo, Abeke, (1972), “Youth Should Help in Developing the Nation”, Morning 
Post, April 10, p.1217 
Federal Republic of Nigeria, (1970), Second National Development Plan (NDP) 1970-
1974, (Lagos: Federal Ministry of Information), p. 261.
THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NYSC SCHEME IN NIGERIA 49
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

High priority will also be accorded to the establishment of 
a National Youth Service Organization designed to 
develop young persons in stimulated work conditions. 
The primary aim of the organization is to provide youth 
with appropriate training in various skills in real working 
conditions, inculcating in them a healthy attitude towards 
manual labor. The organization will also provide a means 
of channeling the talents and energies of youth towards 
18
national service through the spirit of community service.
The usefulness of the program in addressing the problems of 
unemployment was equally articulated in the plan, as stated 
below:
A national Youth Corps will be established designed to 
provide healthy working orientation for young 
unemployed school leavers. The corps will be deployed 
on projects in the rural communities involving the 
building of roads, bridges, schools and dispensaries. In 
the process, various skills will be acquired in the areas of 
carpentry, wielding, shoemaking, pottery, electrical 
19
works, motor and tractor driving…
In other words, National Youth Service Corps as reflected in the 
second NDP captured fully the burning desire of Nigerians to 
channel the resources from this segment of the Nigerian 
population into socio-economic development. However, the 
insertion of the NYSC scheme into the National Development 
Plan did not imply its establishment. The scheme had to wait for 
another three years before it was finally set rolling.
One outstanding development that was key to its kick-off 
was the debilitating effects of the Nigerian Civil War and the 
need to unify Nigeria and Nigerians for national growth and 
development. The thirty-month war left Nigerians physically, 
psychologically, and emotionally battered with fear and 
18 
Ibid19 
Ibid
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 202050
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

suspicion rife in various quarters. With such air of uncertainty, a 
good number of those with bitter experiences of the tragic war 
were unwilling to reside in some parts of Nigeria. Besides, given 
the character of the war, its winding and the top down approach 
to the post war peace-building, some Nigerians were made to 
live with bitter memories of the war - a development that was 
likely to prioritize ethnic loyalties to the chagrin of national 
20 
consciousness. Consequently, national integration featured 
prominently in Gowon's post-war programme. As leaders of 
tomorrow, the post-war integration programme cannot 
overlook the role of the youth in building a strong and united 
Nigeria. Indeed, Gowon seemed to have demonstrated his faith 
in the younger generation to secure the future of the country by 
giving the youth a special place in his post-war policy of 
integration. In 1972, the Federal Military Government 
announced its readiness to start the National Youth Service 
Corps scheme in the following year with graduate youth of 
Nigerian universities. In his address to mark the twelfth 
anniversary of Nigerian independence, the Head of the Nigerian 
military government stated:
The Federal Government recognizes that the future of this 
country lies in the hands of the youth of today. It is 
therefore prepared to ensure that it provides the physical, 
mental and spiritual environment in which these young 
persons can grow up to be worthy citizens of this great 
nation… I promised the nation, when launching the 
current four-year Development Plan that government 
proposed to establish a compulsory National Youth 
Service Corps, the aim of which is to bring together our 
qualified young men and women, and to inculcate in them 
a sense of discipline, dedication, national pride and 
20 
Onuoha,Godwin. 2018. “Memory, Reconciliation, and Peace-building in Post-Civil 
War Southeastern Nigeria.” African Peace-building Network (APN) Working Paper 
Series, no. 19; see also Korieh Chima, (2012), The Nigeria-Biafra War: Genocide and the 
Politics of Memory, (New York: Cambria Press)
THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NYSC SCHEME IN NIGERIA 51
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

consciousness through nationally-directed disciplined 
training not necessarily in armed forces, but in serving the 
nation in any capacity for a short period in their life before 
21  
settling down in their chosen carriers.
22 
Further clarifications on the scheme were later made. However, 
these clarifications did not preclude some negative reactions 
that greeted Gowon's speech and the move to establish the 
scheme. Irrespective of the fact that Nigerian students were at 
23 
the forefront of the agitation for the creation of such scheme
they were the first to register their protest against government 
24 
move in that direction. University and polytechnic students 
protested in Ibadan, Lagos, Ife, Zaria, and Benin with placards 
which revealed the basis of their grievances. One of the placards 
25 
in Ife read:” Youth Service with Adult Service” In Lagos, 
student carried a coffin with the inscription: “#60 00 
26 
Compulsory National Service: Rest in Pieces” According to the 
President of the National Union of Nigerian Student (NUNS), 
Mr. Chigozie Maduka, if the government wants to truly address 
the problem of nation-building, it must include all citizens 
including – public officers, commissioners and permanent 
27 
secretaries who ought to take the lead in such program. NUNS 
maintained that students will not serve in the program unless 
four key conditions were satisfied:
21
Yakubu Gowon (1972), “Twelve Years of Nigerian Independence: National Broadcast ” The 
Nigerian Police
Magazine, 1972-7 . Independence Day Edition, p. 2122
One of such clarifications was made by the Head of the Nigerian Military Government, th 
General Yakubu Gowon, in 1972 while addressing the crowd at the 10 anniversary of the 
Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria23 
Of the 2852 who responded to the question on the type of service preferred, 85% of them opted 
for participating in a compulsory national service. For detail see NYSC, Evaluative Report on 
Four Years of NYSC, p. 9.24 
Jonah Munonye, (2020), participants in the student protests at the then University of Lagos, th 
Interview, Onitsha, 12 September.25 
Quoted in Sanda A.O., (1982), Problems and Prospects of the National Youth Service Corps , 
(Ibadan: Nigerian Institute of Social and Economic Research), p.1626
Dr. Chigozie Maduka, (2020), The then President of the National Union of Nigerian Students th
(NUNS), Interview, Benin City, 8 October.27
Ibid, see also “Student Reps Should Be Included in the Planning and Execution Body” West 
African Pilot, December 9, 1972, p.1.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 202052
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

• Provisions of sponsorship and loan for all students in higher 
institutions in Nigeria
• Ensure adequate accommodation in these institutions
• Guarantee vacation job during long vacation and 
employment after graduation
• Utilize other youth, particularly unemployed secondary 
school leavers, in the meantime, while university graduates 
28
will follow later
Maduka further noted that the students' protest was never 
against the scheme but rather, against its planning. In his words, 
“how can a student whose parents or kinsmen trained from 
loans and community contributions embark on a compulsory 
29 
national service?” This point was further emphasized by Amale 
who noted that national service is premised on the principles 
that every citizen renders services to the nation for benefit 
derived from it, but in the case of Nigeria's NYSC, the 
government, according to him, was asking for a return for the 
30 
service it did not render. He argued that the Nigerian students 
would not have given their approval to that planning package if 
31  
they were invited to be part of the planning.
In other words, the students' opposition to the scheme was, 
as Munonye affirmed, financially motivated, as well as a 
32 
reaction to lack of inclusive program of planning. It is pertinent 
to note that the students through their university unions had not 
only submitted their recommendations on national service to the 
Committee of the Vice Chancellors through Dickson's 
Committee in May 1970, NUNS, but had also called on the 
Federal Government to speed up plans for the establishment of 
28    
Munonye, Interview; see also “Service Plan Refused for Graduates from June1973” 
Nigerian Tribune, December. 1972 p.1.29 
Maduka, Interview30  nd 
J. Amale, (2020), participant in the student protest at the University of Ife, Benin City, 2
November.31 
Munonye, Interview32 
Ibid
THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NYSC SCHEME IN NIGERIA 53
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

33 
national service for Nigerian students at the same period. Based 
on the Tanzanian experience in which the failure of the 
authorities to involve students in the planning stage generated 
hostility against its National Service Scheme, Dickson had also 
advised in his report that the Federal Government of Nigeria 
should try as much as possible to carry students along in the 
34 
planning stage through consultation. The failure of the 
government to toe such cautious line therefore explained the 
negative reactions from the students. 
Meanwhile, other efforts to accommodate the students' view 
through workshops organized by the Committee of Vice 
Chancellors in the University of Ibadan was aborted by NUNS 
when it staged a walk-out from the workshop accusing the 
Federal Government of proposing such a program without the 
35 
students' input. The impasse was later resolved when NUNS 
was invited for a preliminary discussions with representatives 
th 
from the government. By the 15 of March 1973, the student body 
had given its consent to the establishment of the scheme while 
36
seeking further clarifications from the government.
In addition to the students' protest, some academics in 
Nigerian universities reacted to the proposed program while 
acknowledging the importance of national service in Nigeria's 
development. In a symposium organized by the Association of 
Economics Students, University of Ibadan Chapter, there was a 
concern among academics on the possibility of turning the 
Scheme into an instrument for dampening the revolutionary 
37 
potential of the youth.
33 
The Student Union of the University of Ibadan submitted its memorandum titled: 
“National Service for Nigerian Students – Best Step in the Best Direction” to Alec Dickson's 
Committee. See Dickson's Report, p.27.34 
Dickson Report, p. 27.35 
Maduka, Interview; see also Debate on National Youth Service Corps: Undergraduate 
Walked Out in Protest, Nigerian Observer, February, 24 1973, p.1636
According to Maduka, the government eventually invited the students to series of 
meetings which culminated in the acceptance of some of their demands including the tinge 
of the Nigerian Youth Service Corps with a paramilitary flavor; see also Students Now 
Pledges Loyalty to Gowon” Renaissance, March, 15, 1973, p. 337 
Balogun, Yemi, (2015), “Why Youth Service in Nigeria: The Contests and Agitations, 1972- 
1973” The Journal of Pan African Studies, Vol.7, No. 8, pp.153 – 171.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 202054
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

It was equally argued that an overhaul of the system was a 
more appropriate solution than the surface-scratching of the 38 
contradictions in the Development Plan. The government was 
also asked to explain the rationale for compulsory service for 
students that saw themselves through their university 
education. Academics were said to have raised further concern 
about inadequate facilities for the scheme to be impactful on the 39 
students. Finally, the opinion that the task of nation-building 
will not be achieved if only a section of the nation is mobilized 40 
was also popular among academics.
Outside the university system, the proposed National Youth 
Service triggered some reactions as well. Some parents opposed 
the scheme on grounds that it would delay their wards from 
entering the labour market. Eager to have themselves relieved of 
the financial burden at home or pay back utilized loan, such 
parents argued that national youth service scheme in Nigeria 41 
should have been preceded by free education. There were those 
who expressed fear of insecurity in other regions and, therefore, 42 
were unwilling to allow their wards travel to such areas.
Numerous other Nigerians suggested more concrete proposals 
that were strongly geared towards a socio-economic–oriented 43 
youth service.
Finally, popular among public opinion is the view that the 
Scheme was primarily designed to address the obvious shortage 
44 
of skilled labour in the north. This argument was buttressed by 
38
Ibid39  
Amale, Interview40
Balogun,” Why Youth Service…”41
NYSC, Summative Evaluation Report, pp.14-1542
Such fear at that period was informed by two factors - the nature of inter-group relations in Nigeria 
particularly after the civil war and the rising narratives of the existence of evil spirits in various parts 
of the country.43 
Adenowo, Abeke, (1973), “Youths Role in National Development Stressed”, Nigerian observer, May 
29, p.24.44
One of the major challenges faced by Nigeria in the 1960s and 70s was the disproportionate 
concentration of skilled manpower in Urban areas. It was to solve this problem which was highly 
prevalent among medical doctors that the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) and National 
Council of Health Workers rolled out a program of one year compulsory service in rural areas as a pre-
condition for full registration as a medical doctor and in pursuit of specialist training. For details on 
manpower distribution in Nigeria, see National Manpower Board (NMB), (1964) Nigeria's High-
Level Manpower Studies, No. 2 Table 5; NMB, (1969), Survey of Manpower Shortage and Surpluses, 
9Federal Ministry of Information) p.20.
THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NYSC SCHEME IN NIGERIA 55
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

the fact that majority of the graduates were from the southern 
part of the country. By the rule that requires a graduate to serve 
in a state other than his own, it follows that a good number of the 
southern graduates will find themselves in the north. Sequel to 
these reactions, General Gowon announced in February 1973 
45 
that there were still rooms for debate on the proposed Scheme.
By the end of March, 1973, oppositions to the scheme seemed to 
have subsided considerably for a take-off of the program.
The Establishment
Having provided for the extension of deliberations and 
consultations for clarity, the Federal Military Government of 
nd 
Nigeria promulgated Decree 24 of May 22 1973 with which it 
officially set up the National Youth Service Corps in Nigeria. 
According to Section 1 (1) of the Decree: “There is hereby 
established a scheme to be known as the National Youth Service 
Corps”. The service corps shall with a view to the proper 
encouragement and development of common ties among the 
youth of Nigeria and the promotion of Nigerian unity, be 
charged with all such functions as pertain to the objectives of the 
46 
service corps as contained in section 1 (3) of the Decree.
Meanwhile, a government policy statement had earlier outlined 
the objectives which were captured in the Decree, thus:
(a) to inculcate discipline in Nigerian youths by instilling in
them a tradition of industry at work, and, of patriotic and 
of loyal service to the nation in any situation they may find 
themselves;
(b) to raise their moral tone by giving them the opportunity to 
learn about higher ideals of national achievement and 
social and cultural improvement;
(c) to develop in them attitudes and mind, acquired through 
shared experience and suitable training, which make them 
more amenable to mobilization in the national interest;
45      
“Youth Service Corps Debate Still Open, Renaissance,  February, 19, 1973, p.1.46 
National Youth Service Corps (1973) NYSC Act, Decree No. 24, (Lagos: Directorate of NYSC) 
p.1.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 202056
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

(d) to develop common ties among them and promote 
national unity by ensuring that –
• as far as possible youths are assigned to jobs in states 
other than their states of origin;
• each group assigned to work together, is as 
representative of the country as possible;
• the youths are exposed to the modes of living of the 
people in different parts of the country, with a view 
to removing prejudices, eliminating ignorance and 
confirming at first-hand the many similarities among 
Nigerians of all ethnic group.
(e) to encourage members of the service corps to seek, at the 
end of their corps service, career employment all over 
the country, thus promoting the free movement of labor;
(f) to induce employers, partly through their experience with 
members of the service corps, to employ more readily 
qualified Nigerians irrespective of their states of origin; 
and,
(g) to enable Nigerian youths to acquire the spirit of self- 47
reliance
At a first glance, it appears the objectives as contained in the 
Decree failed to capture the quest for socio-economic-oriented 
youth service program. But this, Sander noted, was taken care of 
48 
in specific areas to which corps members were to be deployed.
Among such areas were: road construction project, rural 
hospitals, other hospitals, surveying and mapping, food storage 
and eradication of pest, social and economic survey, 
rehabilitation of the disabled, teaching, execution of other rural 
projects, all government departments and stability corporation 
suitable for new graduates, attachment to development council, 
development of sports and any other appropriate area of 
47
 Ibid, pp.1-248
 Sanda, A.O., Problems and Prospects of National Youth Service… p.2149
See National Youth Service Corps (1973) NYSC Act, Decree No. 24. p. 5; National Youth 
Service Corps (1993) th
NYSC Act, Decree No. 51, 16 June, p.7.
THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NYSC SCHEME IN NIGERIA 57
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

49 
employment In other words, the yearning for youth 
involvement in socio-economic development was fully captured 
in its objectives. In addition to the objectives, the eligibility 
criteria for the youth service were equally outlined. Every 
Nigerian shall:
• if at the end of the academic year 1972-73, or, as the case 
may be, at the end of any subsequent academic year, he 
shall have graduated at any university in Nigeria, or
• if at the end of the academic year 1974-75, or, as the case 
may be, at the end of any subsequent academic year, he 
shall have graduated at any university outside Nigeria, or,
• if, at the end of the academic year 1975-76, or, as the case 
may be, at the end of any subsequent year, he shall have 
obtained the Higher National Diploma (HND) or the 
National Certificate of Education (NCE), or such other 
professional qualifications as may be prescribed, or,
• If, at the end of the academic year 1975-76, as the case may 
be, at the end of any subsequent academic year to the end of 
1983-84 academic year, he shall have obtained the National 
Certificate of Education,
• be under an obligation unless exempted under Section 15 
of the National Youth Service Corps Act, to make himself/ 
herself available for service for a continuous period of one 
year from the date specified in the call-up instrument 
50
served upon him.
50 
National Youth Service Corps, (1973) NYSC Act, Decree No, 24, pp. 2-3; see also 
National Youth Service Corps, (1974), “Extension of Application Order”, 19 Sept.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 202058
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Fig. 5.1: Prof. Adebayo Adedeji Fig. 5.2: Col. Ahmadu Ali
th 
On the 4 of June 1973, the Directorate of the National Youth 
Service Corps was inaugurated by the Head of State to see to the 
affairs of the program. Professor Adebayo Adedeji was 
appointed the first National Chairman, while Colonel Ahmadu 
51 
Ali was the first National Director. In order to drive the scheme, 
a four-phased program of activities was developed:
• Mobilization
• Orientation
• Primary Assignment and Community Development Service
• Winding-Up Activities and Passing-Out Parade
Mobilization, as the first phase of the program, involves 
collection of data on prospective Nigerian graduates eligible for 
youth service and deployment to the state of primary 
51    
Other members of the Directorate were Professors H. Kodilinye, J.F.Ade Ajayi, E. U. 
Emovon, I.S. Audu, O.O. Akinkugbe and J.A. Okunlola (representing six universities in 
existence in Nigeria by then); Mr. M.A. Eweka (from the Police), Major Oladipo Diya 
(from the Armed Forces). Mr. A. Lamikaran (representing Nigerian employers), Alhaji 
Mohammad Yazidu, Mrs A.K. Pratt, Mrs. L. Dagashi (appointed by the Head of State, 
and one representative each from the Cabinet Office and the Federal Ministry of 
Education.
THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NYSC SCHEME IN NIGERIA 59
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

assignment. It begins with a Call-Up-Letter from the NYSC 
Directorate Headquarters which informs the candidates of the 
call-up-date, the state of deployment and the venue of 
52 
orientation. Those mobilized from various institutions must be 
students who have successfully completed their Bachelor's 
degree or HND program. Mobilization is followed by the 
orientation course which is a training program for para-military 
drills in preparation for the one- year service. The three weeks 
training, which is usually conducted in all states of the 
federation, is equally geared towards familiarizing the corps 
members with their new environment. During the period, 
service members live a relatively regimented life at the camp 
usually located outside the state capital. The orientation phase 
covers four key events: Swearing in Ceremony, General 
Orientation, Professional Orientation and the Terminal Parade. 
53
From the orientation program, corps members are deployed 
according to section 9 of the NYSC Act to their area of primary 
assignment and community development. For primary 
assignment, they are expected to work under an employer of 
labour either in public or private sector for one year. Community 
Development Service (CDS) on the other hand, was originally a 
six weeks' program during which a Nigerian graduate on 
national youth service is expected to demonstrate his or her 
innovative skills and creativity towards the development of the 
54 
place of deployment. More recently, it has assumed a year-
round program with corps members engaging in both primary 
assignment and CDS at the same time. 
52
National Youth Service Corps, (1995), NYSC Hand Book, Revised Edition (Abuja: 
Directorate of NYSC), p. 1553 
Ibid; see also National Youth Service Corps ,(2006), General Policy Guidelines for NYSC 
Orientation Course.(Abuja: Directorate of the NYSC)54 
National Youth Service Corps, (1984(, Project Document, Nigerian Youth Service Corps, 
(Lagos: Directorate of NYSC).
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 202060
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

As the name suggests, Winding-Up program is a farewell 
package that features cultural display, drama and presentation 
of gifts to outstanding service corps members. The program 
brings all corps members to the state capital for a closing 
ceremony which equally provides opportunity for evaluation of 
the scheme. In attendance are usually the state governors and 
some other state dignitaries. At the end of the program, a 
certificate of participation without which employers of labour 
are not supposed to offer employment to Nigerian graduates is 
55 
issued to every participant in the program. It is pertinent to note 
that in some cases, participants upon completion of the national 
youth service program, are given full employment in their place 
of primary assignment. Some equally gain employment at the 
end of their youth service programme in other sectors within 
their state of deployment. This is not only in line with the 
national integration as envisioned by the scheme when it was set 
up, the Nigerian government at various levels further went extra 
mile in the early days of the NYSC to promote similar trends 
56
through various means.
With the establishment of the Directorate of the NYSC, the 
program schedule for the first year of service (1973-1974) was 
approved as follows:
• Call-up - July 2, 1973
• Orientation Program – July2-31, 1973
• Tour of the State Assignment, August 1-7, 1973
• Primary Assignment, August 8 1973-June 23 1974
• Secondary Assignment, Three Weeks during Christmas 
Holiday and three weeks during Easter Holidays 
(Community Development Service)
55 
Those exempted from the program on various grounds are issued exemption letter in 
place of the certificate of participation. Medical doctors, lawyers and pharmacist are also 
issued deferment certificate to enable them do their one-year professional 
apprenticeship before service.56 
In the early days of the NYSC, some state governments went extra mile to encourage 
corps members to get married in their states of service. One of the ways through which 
such was promoted was by picking the bills for some of the marriage rites in such areas.
THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NYSC SCHEME IN NIGERIA 61
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

• End-of-the year Debriefing Session, June 24-29, 1974
th 57
• Passing out Ceremony, June 30 1974
In other words, in less than six weeks of its establishment, 
the Directorate was expected to plan successfully the takeoff of 
the NYSC program in Nigeria. It was therefore not surprising to 
see a number of unforeseen challenges rearing their heads in an 
attempt to execute the maiden edition of the scheme. For 
instance, some of those mobilized and deployed in 1973 were 
eventually disqualified from participating in that year's national 
nd 
youth service because the Call-Up-Date of 2 July preceded the 
release of degree examination results in some Nigerian 
universities. Of the 2,757 initially deployed, only 2, 364 
58 
graduates were eligible for participation. Also, the Nigerian 
Railway Corporation (NRC) embarked on an industrial action as 
the Call-Up-Date approached making it difficult for some 
mobilized corps members to travel to their states of assignment. 
Consequently, the Nigeria Air Force was engaged to airlift some 
59 
of them where possible. Despite these hitches, the Directorate 
was able to accomplish its assignment successfully in its first 
year. In an expression that revealed the arduous task it faced, its 
first Chairman, Professor Adedeji, remarks:
Only people who have ever been involved in the 
setting up of a nation-wide administrative 
machinery involving the active participation and 
corporation of all the state governments will fully 
appreciate what a gigantic task this was, even in the 
best of circumstances – not to talk of considerable 
60
constraint imposed by the lack of time
57
Greogory Enegwea and Gabriel Umoden, (1993), NYSC: Twenty Years of National 
Youth Service,
(Lagos: Gabumo Press), p.1858 
Ibid59 
Ibid60     
Professor Adebayo Adedeji, quoted in Enegwea and Umoden, p. 20
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 202062
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

By the end of June 1974, the first batch of Nigerian graduates 
completed their youth service programme in the country, giving 
the scheme an air of success and a wind for consolidation. 
Following the provisions made for the extension of the scheme 
to other Nigerians, the NYSC (Extension of Application) Order 
of 1974 extended the scheme to Nigerians trained overseas who 
may want to volunteer to serve. By the same Order, it was made 
mandatory for overseas trained Nigerians who graduated in the 
1974/75 academic year. Participation in the scheme was 
extended to the HND, NCE and other professionally-qualified 
Nigerians from the end of 1975/76 academic year. In 1977, age 
was removed as a factor for eligibility. The inclusion of NCE and 
HND holders created an upsurge in the number of Nigerian 61 
youth eligible for mobilization annually. This, coupled with the 
increasing number of institutions of higher learning, led to an 
amendment of the eligibility criteria. The Decree No. 21 of 1985 st 
exempted with effect from 1 August of the same year persons 
who:
• are over the age of 30,
• have been conferred with national honors,
• have served in the Nigerian armed forces or police for a 
period of more than nine months at the graduation date,
• holders of NCE with effects from the end of the 1984/ 
85academic year.
Highlights of the National Youth Service Corps Act
The establishment Decree No. 24 of 1973 makes provisions for 
two governing bodies of the scheme at the national and state 
levels – the Directorate and the State Committee. Section 3-8 of 
the Decree spells out the administrative structure and functions 
of these bodies. Section 4 (1) entrusts the duty of policy 
formulation and overall supervision of the scheme to the 
Directorate. Thus, the Directorate, located at the national capital, 
61 
From 3,513 in 1975/76, the number of mobilized youth for NYSC jumped to 
6107 in 1976.77. In 1977/78, the number surged further to 10,814. By 1984/85, 
the number of participants in the program had reached 46,685. For more on this 
see Enegwea and Umoden, p. 27
THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NYSC SCHEME IN NIGERIA 63
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

is the highest governing and policy-making body of the scheme. 
Its chief executive is the Director who is based in the Directorate 
at the headquarters. The Directorate of the NYSC consists of the 
office of the Director and three main Departments – 
Administrative, Finance and Operations, and Inspectorate 
Departments. These are sub-divided into ten divisions – 
Administration, Account, Information, Corps Welfares and 
Discipline, Health Services, Data Bank, Operations Program, 
Planning and Evaluation, Regulated and other Professions, Job 
62 
Placement and Corps Service Inspection Unit. At its inception, 
the Directorate comprised a governing board made up of the 
Chairman, the Director (who is the chief executive), three other 
members one of who must be a woman. There are also 
representatives from the Armed Forces, the Police, the Nigerian 
universities, Federal Ministry of Education and Labor, the 
Nigerian Employers Consultative Association and the Cabinet 
Office. According to the Decree, the Chairman and members of 
the governing board shall be appointed by the President.
According to Section 4 (1), the Directorate is responsible for 
drawing up detailed programme with a view to accomplishing 
the objectives of the NYSC. It is also the responsibility of the 
Directorate to ensure compliance vis-à-vis the guidelines 
stipulated in the NYSC Act. The Directorate equally shoulders 
the responsibility of supervising and coordinating the activities 
of the NYSC at the state level, assigning duties to corps members 
in accordance with its already approved program of action. The 
task of evaluating the scheme annually and rendering of reports 
to the presidency also rest with the Directorate.
Section 6 (1) of the establishment Act provides for the 
creation of State Committee under the state governor. The State 
Committee assists the National Directorate in carrying out its 
functions in various states of the federation. It is headed by a 
Principal Inspector, also called the Chief Inspectorate, who is the 
62
National Youth Service Corps, ( 1977), Evaluative Report on Four Years of the 
NYSC,(Lagos: Directorate of the NYSC)
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 202064
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

chief executive in every state. Among the functions of the State 
Committee are: compilation of information on all available jobs 
at the state level, arrangement of facilities especially 
accommodation and transportation for corps members, 
deployment of corps members within the state and compilation 
of the details of corps members for transmission to the 
Directorate.
Both the Directorate and the State Committee have 
undergone some transformative changes with subsequent 
modifications of the NYSC Act. For instance, section 3(2) of 
th 
Decree 51 of 16 June 1993 reduced the members of the 
63 
Directorate's governing board from 22 to 10 for effectiveness.
Section 6 of the new Decree equally changed the name of the 
State Committee to State Governing Board, which comprised the 
Chairman, the State Coordinator, representatives from the 
police, the army, education sector, commerce and industry, 
64 
agriculture and natural resources. As a way of inducing state 
commitment to the program, the new Act of 1993 further makes 
provisions for a minimum subvention of 500 000 Naira to be paid 
annually by every state to cater for deployed corps members 
within the states. Such subvention according to Section 7 (3), 
'shall be provided before the commencement of the service year 
for which it is intended” The state government is further 
required in sub-section (4) to provide other facilities for the 
implementation and achievement of the program including land 
for agriculture, orientation camps and transportation facilities. 
Decree No. 51 Section 8 (1 - 5) equally makes provisions for 
the creation of the NYSC program office at the LGA and zonal 
levels. The NYSC programme at the LGA, which is referred to as 
the “Committee” in the Act, with its headquarters located in the 
office of the L.G.A Chairman, comprised the Chairman, (LGA 
63
These are: the Chairman, the Director, one representative each from the Nigerian Police, 
the Nigerian Army, Committee of Vice Chancellors, Committee of Rectors of 
Polytechnic, Nigerian Employers Consultative Association, and three other persons one 
of whom shall be a woman.64
With the exception of the State Coordinator whose appointment is made from the 
Directorate, all others are the State Governors appointees.
THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NYSC SCHEME IN NIGERIA 65
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Chairman Chairperson), Zonal Inspector, one representative 
each from the Nigerian Police, Health, Education, and Private 
sectors, Social Welfare, Community Development and 
Traditional Rulers. Among the functions of the NYSC/LGA 
office are: making provision for security of corps members in the 
LGA, ensuring that Community Development Program is 
pursued, assisting the selection of corps members for award, 
and making provisions for the welfare of corps members 
deployed to the LGA. Section 8 (5) further provides for the 
establishment of State zonal NYSC referred in the Act as “zonal 
office”. It comprised a number of LGAs as may be determined 
from time to time and headed by a member of staff of the 
Directorate to be known as Zonal inspector.
The administrative divisions of the Directorate witnessed 
some changes following these modifications. The old divisions 
was replaced with 7 departments - Personnel Management, 
Finance and Supplies, Planning Research and Statistics, 
Inspection, Corps Mobilization, Community Development 
Service, and Corps Welfare Service Departments headed by 65 
directors. With this, the status of the chief executive of the 
Directorate had to change from that of a Director to Director 
General. According to the NYSC Director of Administration, all 
these drives for changes and consequent transformations were 
geared towards improving the efficiency of the Directorate in 
“making NYSC prominent in national development efforts to 66
show its relevance” . As Enegwea and Umoden observed, the 
Directorate under Decree No. 24 of 1973, was “too unwieldy” for 67
effectiveness.
The NYSC Act further highlights the placement of the 
service corps. The Directorate is required to register every 
member of the service corps for deployment for national service 
in undertakings and projects enumerated in section 9 (2) of the 
65 
More departments have been created since 1993 to carter for some challenges in the course of 
running the program. Currently, the directorate has about 13 departments. Sub-divisions of 
these departments are under Deputy Directors.66 
National Youth Service Corps (1991) Minutes of Meeting of the National Director with th th 
Directors and Assistants Directors of NYSC Held from March 14 -15 at Sheraton Hotel and 
Towers Abuja, p.167 
Enegwea and Umoden, p 28.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 202066
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Act. In other words, priority is to be given to works 
involving hospitals, road constructions, farming, water 
schemes, surveying and mapping, teaching, social and 
economic services, food storage and eradication of pests and 
many others as contained in the Act. The Act equally requires the 
Directorate to put into consideration qualifications of corps 
members, existing vacancies and priorities of the nation before 
placing members for service program. The Directorate is 
therefore not to be compelled in any way to deploy a member of 
service corps to any project.
Evaluation and reports of performance of corps members are 
done quarterly. According to section 10(2), the quarterly report 
of service members shall show:
• The extent of his/her interest in the undertaking or project,
• The degree of comradeship he/she engenders amongst his 
fellow corps members and the people within the 
community he is serving or have served,
• Industry at work, resourcefulness and initiative,
• Character, address, temperament and integrity,
• Leadership and readiness to accept responsibility,
• Special contribution to the host community, and
• Any other information which may assist in evaluating the 
character of each member of the service corps
In recognition of the uniqueness of some professions as well 
as variations in human modes of operation, the NYSC Act 
provides for deferment where it is not possible to participate in 
the program in the year of graduation. Section 17 (2) gives the 
Directorate the power, subject to the approval of the National 
Defence and Security Council, to defer the call-up of any person 
or category of persons eligible for service for a specified period 
of time. In the same vein, the Directorate may reduce or extend 
the period of service for any person or category of persons when 
it is satisfied that there are genuine reasons for doing so. In 
addition to deferment, the same section makes room for 
THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NYSC SCHEME IN NIGERIA 67
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

exemption of any person from all or partof the provisions of the 
NYSC Act. Upon being satisfied that exemption is necessary, the 
Directorate issues a certificate of exemption to the concerned 
candidate. 
Though a free service to one's nation, the NYSC Act makes 
provision for a monthly allowance for every corps member 
deployed. Corps members are also entitled to free medical 
facilities on the same basis as public servants in all the states of 
the federation as well as transportation allowance to and from 
the state of deployment. In line with the demands of the time, 
some of these allowances have undergone series of review for 68 
upgrade. Under Section 13(2), an employer of labour is 
required to provide accommodation for corps members at its 
service or pay a certain amount of money per month in lieu of 69
accommodation. 
Furthermore, a corps member is entitled to all welfare 
facilities provided for regular staff including medical services. 
With respect to protection, section 19 makes provisions for 
entitlement to the Public Officers Protection Act throughout the 
duration of service. Finally, the NYSC Act provides for offences 
and their penalties. Section 13 (3), for example, requires every 
service member to report for service as directed by the 
Directorate; prohibit ineligible candidates from service, and 
forbids double or multiple service, certificate forgery and illegal 
wearing of service corps uniform. Contravention of any of these 
attracts penalties, which, in most cases, are either fine or 
imprisonment, and in a worst case scenario, both. Section 16 (2), 
subject to the approval of the presidency, provides the 
Directorate with the power to make bye-laws for proper 
administration of the program. Every corps member is guided 
by bye-laws of the NYSC. A copy of these laws is issued on 
68 
For instance, with the inclusion of the HND and NCE holders in the scheme, monthly 
allowance became 180 Naira for Bachelor's degree and HND holders while corps members 
with NCE received 137 Naira. A transport sum of 184 Naira was also made available to be 
shared as follows: Transportation to the state of deployment (50 Naira), from the state of 
deployment (50 Naira), Local transportation (84). Doctors and Pharmacist were exempted 
from the latter   since   they received car basic allowance.69
According to the NYSC Act of 1993, a minimum sum of 250 Naira is to be paid monthly to 
corps member when accommodation is not provided.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 202068
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

enrolment. Among the items addressed in the scheme's bye- 
laws are: the motto of the NYSC – “Service and Humility”, its 
Pledge, Code of Conduct and Penalties for breaching them, 
medical provision, Leave of Absence, Identity Cards, Maternity 
Leave During Service year, Confidential Report, Channels of 70 
Communication and Short titles. Contravention of any of the 
laws guiding one's conduct in these areas attracts some penalties 71 
which are enumerated in the NYSC Bye-Laws 3)2) and 10(2j). It 
is pertinent to note that appeals can be made by an aggrieved 
person against any decision or exercise of the Directorate. 
Section 20 of the NYSC Act gives room for appeal to be made to 
the Presidency when corps members deem it necessary. In such a 
case, the Presidency, with the approval of the National Defence 
and Security Council, may confirm, reverse or amend the 
decision of the Directorate.
Conclusion
Like many other nations of Africa at independence, Nigeria 
faced a multiplicity of challenges prominent of which was the 
problem of nation-building especially in the areas of socio-
economic development and national unity. The quest for 
national service, which seemed to have begun in the mid-1960s, 
was in recognition of the unique contributions of the youth 
towards these goals. While the thirty-month civil war appeared 
to have dragged the issue of national integration to the centre 
stage leading to the establishment of the NYSC scheme, the quest 
for socio economic development equally reflected in the 
objectives and the Act that gave birth to the scheme. Indeed, 
nation-building is a dynamic process, and the flexibility in the 
NYSC Act seems to be in concordance with this fact. For those 
who argue that the NYSC has outlived its usefulness and should 72 
be scrapped, it can only be said that such opinion is informed by 
70 th
 National Youth Service Corps (1974), NYSC Bye-Laws, 20  June, (Lagos: Directorate of the 
NYSC)71 
Ibid72 th 
Among them were: Moshood Kalah (2011), “NYSC: To Be or Not to Be” The Guardian, 24
May, pp. 4-6; Odulana, Adebayo, {2011}, “South West will Implement Uniform Policies” nd 
Politics Today, Channels Television, 2 May.
THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NYSC SCHEME IN NIGERIA 69
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

the shallow view of the goals behind the establishment of the 
scheme. As an instrument of nation-building, the National 
Youth Service scheme in Nigeria can be re-packaged and re- 
channeled to address the crucial needs of the nation at any time. 
“The goals and objectives of the scheme as set by the founding 
fathers in the early 1970s are “according to the former Director- 
General of the NYSC, Brig. Gen. S. Ibrahim “still very relevant to 73
contemporary Nigerian situation”
73 
Keynote address delivered by the Executive Director of the NYSC Brig. Gen. S. Ibrahim, 
in a meeting of the Director and assistant Directors of the NYSC Held in Sheraton Hotel th
and Towers, 14th 
-15 March, 1991 p. 1; see also Afolayan, Adeola, Nzoka, M. Anthony, TapShang 
Emmanuel B, Tanimu, Yunusa, Ajayi Tunde, W, Harris, Shehu B,, (2020) Selected Speeches th 
and Strides of the 18 NYSC Director General, Brig. Gen. s. Ibrahim, (Abuja: Directorate of 
NYSC).
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 202070
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

References
Adenowo, Abeke, (1972), “Youth Should Help in Developing 
the Nation”, Morning Post, April 10, p.12
Adenowo, Abeke, (1973), “Youths Role in National 
Development Stressed”, Nigerian observer, May29, p. 24
Afolayan, Adeola, Nzoka, M. Anthony, TapShang Emmanuel B, 
Tanimu, Yunusa, Ajayi Tunde, W, Harris, Shehu B, (2020) 
th 
Selected Speeches and Strides of the 18 NYSC Director General, 
Brig. Gen. s. Ibrahim, (Abuja: Directorate of NYSC)
Ajiboye Agunbiade, (1993), The National Youth Service: A 
Challenge to Government, the Youth and the Nigerian Society, 
(Ibadan: Nigerian Institute of Social and Economic 
Research}, p.1.
Eberly D. J and Gal, R. (2007), “A Role for Young People in 
Building Post Conflict Civil Society” InternationalJournal of 
Not-for – Profit Law Vol 9, No. 4 Available at 
h t t p : / / w w w . i c n c . o r g /  
research/journal/vol9iss4/special_3htm Accessed 
07/08/ 20
Eberly D.J. (1994), “Youth Service and Human Heritage”, Paper 
Presented at the Second Global Conference on National 
Youth Service, Abuja.
Solarin Tai, (1973) “Thoughts of Tai Solarin: The Flaws in Our 
Youth Service Corps”, Nigerian Tribune, April 24. p.9.
Balogun Yemi, (2015), “Why Youth Service in Nigeria: The 
Contests and Agitations, 1972-1973” The Journal ofPan 
African Studies, Vol.7, No. 8, pp.153 – 171.
Committee of Vice Chancellors, National Service Scheme 
for Nigerian Students, Report of the Working Panel, April, 
1969 Dickson's Report on National Service by Nigerian 
Students, August,1970.
THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NYSC SCHEME IN NIGERIA 71
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Enegwea, Gregory and Umoden, Gabriel, (1993), NYSC: Twenty 
Years of National Youth Service, (Lagos: Gabumo Press).
Federal Republic of Nigeria, (1970), Second National 
Development Plan (NDP) 1970-1974, {Lagos: Federal 
Ministry ofInformation).
Gowon, Yakubu, (1972), “Twelve Years of Nigerian 
Independence: National Broadcast” The Nigerian Police 
Magazine, 1972-73. Independence Day Edition. p. 21.
Korieh Chima, (2012), The Nigeria-Biafra War: Genocide and the 
Politics of Memory, (New York: Cambria Press).
Maduka, Chigozie, (2020), Interview, Benin City, 8 October. 
Munonye Jonah (2020), Interview, Onitsha, 12 September.
Moshood Kalah (2011), “ NYSC: To Be or Not to Be” The 
th 
Guardian, 24 May, pp. 4-6.
National Manpower Board (NMB) (1964), Nigeria's High-Level 
Manpower Studies, No. 2 Table 5; (Lagos: Federal Ministry of 
Information).
National Manpower Board, (1969), Survey of Manpower Shortage 
and Surpluses, (Lagos: Federal Ministry of Information).
National Youth Service Corps (1991) “Minutes of Meeting of the 
National Director with Directors and Assistants Directors 
th th 
of NYSC Held from March 14 -15 at Sheraton Hotel and 
Towers,” (Abuja: Directorate of NYSC)
National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), (1983). Summative 
Evaluation Report of the Ten Years of National Youth Service 
Corps in Nigeria, (Lagos: Directorate of NYSC),
National Youth Service (1977), Evaluative Report on Four Years of 
NYSC Scheme by Folayan Ojo, (Lagos: Directorate of NYSC)
National Youth Service Corps, (1995), NYSC Hand Book, Revised 
Edition, (Abuja: Directorate of NYSC)
National Youth Service Corps, (2006), General Policy Guidelines 
for NYSC Orientation Course. (Abuja: Directorate of NYSC)
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 202072
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps, (1984(, Project Document, Nigerian 
Youth Service Corps (Lagos: Directorate of NYSC)
National Youth Service Corps (1973), NYSC Act, Decree No. 24. 
(Lagos: Directorate of NYSC)
National Youth Service Corps (1993), NYSC Act, Decree 
No.51(Abuja: Directorate of NYSC).National Youth 
Service Corps (1974), NYSC Extension of Application Order of 
th 
20 May , (Lagos: Directorate of NYSC).
National Youth Service Corps (1974), NYSC Bye-Laws, (Lagos: 
Directorate of NYSC).
National Union of Nigerian Students (NUNS) “Student Reps 
Should Be Included in the Planning And Execution Body” 
West African Pilot, December 10, 1972, p.1.
National Union of Nigerian Students (NUNS) “Service Plan 
Refused for Graduates From June1973” Nigerian Tribune, 
December 9. 1972 p.1
Odulana, Adebayo, {2011}, “South West will Implement 
nd 
Uniform Policies” Politics Today, Channels Television, 2
May
Onuoha, Godwin. 2018. “Memory, Reconciliation, and Peace- 
building in Post-Civil War Southeastern, Nigeria.” African 
Peace-building Network (APN) Working Paper Series, no. 
19;
Onwere, Chioma (1992), “National Youth Service Program and 
National Integration in Nigeria” PhD Dissertation, 
Institute of Education, University of London.
Sanda, O.A. (1994) 'Youth Service and World Peace”, Paper 
Presented on Second Global Conference on National 
Youth Service, Abuja
Sanda A.O. (1982), Problems and Prospects of the National Youth 
Service Corps , (Ibadan: Nigerian Institute of Social and 
Economic Research).
THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NYSC SCHEME IN NIGERIA 73
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Udende, P and Salaou, A. (2015), “National Youth Service Corps 
Scheme and the Quest for National Unity and 
Development. A Public Relation Perspective “Available at 
http:// www.unilorin.edu.ng/abdu/rauf/NYSCandthe 
quesfornationalunityanddevelopment.pdf. Accessed, 
707/08/20.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 202074
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Chapter Four
ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE 
NYSC
Fidelis Egbe 
Veritas University, 
Abuja
Introduction
When Nigeria attained political independence from her 
erstwhile British colonialist in 1960, the political structure of the 
country was a tripartite arrangement which unwittingly 
emphasised ethnic dichotomy. The political parties that mid-
wifed the emergence of the leadership of the country at that time 
were largely ethnic - cum regional based parties as most of their 
supporters were domiciled in the regions where the parties were 1 
based. Consequent upon the ethnic nature of the political 
parties, there arose a chain of political upheavals occasioned by 
the tussle for the acquisition and control of political power by 
politicians from the various regions. The quagmires which 
ensued include the census figures crises of 1962/63, the Western 
Regional crisis with the subsequent intervention of the Federal 
Government by declaring a state of emergency on the Western th 
Region, the cases of corruption, the January 15 1966 coup d' etat, 
the counter coup of July 1966 and the pogrom that followed, 
climaxing in the civil war of 1967-1970, where thousands of souls 2
were lost and properties worth billions of naira destroyed.
There is no doubt that all these challenges which confronted 
the young Nigerian state in the early years of independence 3 
stratified the country along ethnic cleavages even the more.
1
Ifamose F.O. and Ojo O. E., Main Trends in Nigerian History: From 1800 To 2000 , Oluwatoyin 
Publishers, Ibadan, 2013, PP.140-141.2
Abubakar S., “The Challenges of Nation Building: Nigeria, which way forward?” in Ogbogbo 
C.B.N. and Okpeh O.O. (eds), Interrogating Contemporary Africa: Dike Memorial Lectures 1999-
2007, Historical Society of Nigeria, 2007, PP. 36-40.3
NYSC, “Background to the National Youth Service Corps Scheme”, in NYSC Hand Book 
Revised in 1995, P.6.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Nigerians of various ethnic groups who had hitherto cultivated 
healthy intergroup relations, long before colonial rule, suddenly 
could no longer trust one another. People lived in fear, and were 
hesitant to relocate to other parts of the country after the civil 
war because of the events which precluded the war. It was 
therefore the urgent need to heal the wounds in the bleeding 
hearts of Nigerians, re- build trust and confidence, re-integrate 
and re-unite the Nigerian peoples, for a new and better post-civil 
war Nigeria, that made the Military Head of State at that time, 
General Yakubu Gowon, to introduce the 3 Rs of Reconciliation, 4 
Reconstruction and, Rehabilitation. These three cardinal ideals 
of the post-civil war policy of the Federal Government of Nigeria 
were, as stated above, aimed at healing the wounds of the people 
and building trust amongst Nigerians of various ethnic groups, 
especially among the youths who were seen as the future leaders 
of the country. It was in line with the policy of the 3Rs and the 
dare need to build confidence and trust, as well as empower 
Nigerian youths, that the National Youth Services Corps (NYSC) 
was established in 1973, three years after the civil war.
Formation of the NYSC
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) was established by 
the Federal Government of Nigeria via Decree No. 24 which was nd 
promulgated on the 22 May, 1973, but it was Decree No. 51 of th 
16 June, 1993, which upon the return of democratic rule became 
known as “the NYSC Act CAP No 84, Laws of the Federation of 5 
Nigeria 2004”, that clearly and unequivocally spelt out the 
objectives of the Scheme as follows:
• To inculcate discipline in Nigerian youths by instilling in 
them a tradition of industry at work, and of patriotic and 
loyal service to Nigeria in any situation they may find 
themselves.
4
Chuckwu D.O., “Cleavages, Conflicts and Nigerian Federalism: A Historical Analysis”, 
in Okpeh O.O. and Ogbogbo C.B.N. (eds), Federalism in Historical Perspective , Aboki 
Publishers, Makurdi, 2013, PP. 135-136.5 th 
National Youth Service Corps Yearbook 45 Anniversary Commemorative Edition 2018, p. 19.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 202076
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

• To raise the moral tone of the Nigerian youths by giving 
them the opportunity to learn about higher ideals of national 
achievement, social and cultural improvement.
• To develop in the Nigerian youths the attitudes of mind, 
acquired through shared experience and suitable training, 
which will make them more amenable to mobilisation in the 
national interest
• To enable Nigerian youths acquire the spirit of self-reliance 
by encouraging them to develop skills for self-employment
• To contribute to the accelerated growth of the national 
economy
• To develop common ties among the Nigerian youths and 
promote national unity and integration
• To remove prejudices, eliminate ignorance and confirm at 
first hand the many similarities among Nigerians of all 
ethnic groups
• To develop a sense of corporate existence and common 
destiny of the people of Nigeria
• The equitable distribution of members of the service corps 
and the effective utilisation of their skills in area of national 
needs
• That as far as possible, youths are assigned to jobs in states 
other than their states of origin
• That such group of youths assigned to work together is as 
representative of Nigeria as far as possible
• That the Nigerian youths are exposed to the modes of living 
of the people in different parts of Nigeria
• That the Nigerian youths are encouraged to eschew religious 
intolerance by accommodating religious differences
• That members of the service corps are encouraged to seek at 
the end of their one-year national service, career 
employment all over Nigeria, thus promoting the free 
movement of labour
ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE NYSC 77
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

• That employers are induced partly through their experience 
with members of the service corps to employ more readily 
and on a permanent basis, qualified Nigerians, irrespective 
6
of their States of origin.
NYSC Vision Statement
• To develop a sound and result oriented organisation that is 
strongly committed to its set objectives particularly those of 
national unity and even development.
• An organisation that is well motivated and capable of 
bringing out the best qualities in our youths and imparting 
in them the right attitude and values for nation-building.
• An organisation that serves as a catalyst to national 
development, and a source of pride and fulfilment to its 
participating graduate youths.
NYSC Mission Statement
• To build a pragmatic organisation that is committed to its set 
objectives with the ultimate goal of producing future 
leadership with positive national ethos-Leadership that is 
vibrant, proud and committed to the unity and even 
development of the Nigeria State.
• To be at the fore front of National development efforts, as 
well as serve as a profitable platform for imparting in our 
youths values of nationalism, patriotism, loyalty and 
accountable leadership.
• To raise the moral tone of our youths by giving them 
opportunity to learn about high ideals of national 
achievement, social and cultural improvement.
• To develop in our youths, attitude of mind acquired through 
shared experience, and suitable training which would make 
them more amenable to mobilisation in the national interest. 
6 
NYSC, “Background to the National Youth Service Corps Scheme”, in NYSC Hand 
Book Revised in 1995, P.8.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 202078
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

• To ensure Nigerian youths acquire the spirit of self-reliance, 
a reliable source of economic empowerment and effective 
participation in nation building.
• To develop an organisation that is alive to its responsibilities 
and responsive to the needs of the country.
Operational Structure of the NYSC
For a practical realisation of the lofty ideals of the NYSC as 
encapsulated in its objectives, vision and mission above, the 
NYSC at its inception in 1973, adopted an operational structure 
which ensured a devolution of authority from the top to the 
bottom. This organisational structure was necessary to 
accommodate all shades of interest in the country. 
Administratively, though the NYSC Scheme is under the 
supervision of the Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports 
Development, the main administrative power house of the 
NYSC is the National Directorate Headquarters, which is 
headed by the Director General of the Scheme. It is the 
responsibility of the Director General (DG) to ensure the day-to-
day running of the Scheme and its overall success. He is assisted 
by Directors who head units in the national Directorate 
Headquarters. These Directors (heads of units) had staff of 
various grade levels who work with them.
At the state level, the structure consists of a Secretariat 
headed by the State Coordinator with also various levels of staff 
working with them. However, at the Local Government Level, 
the NYSC Scheme has offices in each of the LGAs, which for the 
purpose of administrative convenience are grouped into zones 
and headed by Zonal Officers (ZO).
It is important to bear in mind that at the National 
Directorate of the NYSC, the structure consists of a board made 
up of the Chairman, the Director General, Representatives of 
Committees of Vice Chancellors, Representatives of Rectors of 
Polytechnics, Representatives of the Armed Forces, 
Representatives of the Police,the Nigerian Employers 
ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE NYSC 79
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

7 
Consultative Association, and three special members. The 
responsibility of the board is to advise and guide the Directorate 
in policy implementation. As stated above, the implementation 
and day-to day running of the scheme is the responsibility of the 
Director General assisted by Directors heading key units and 
departments in the Directorate. The main autonomous units 
which are under the office of the Director General are: Press and 8 
Public Relations, Internal Audit, Reforms, and Legal Unit.
Basically, there are thirteen departments and several sub-units 
or divisions at the Directorate Headquarters which are the 
departments of:
1. Corps Mobilisation
2. Corps Certification
3. Human Resource Management
4. Procurement
5. Planning, Research and Statistics
6. General Service
7. Information and Communication Technology
8. Corps Welfare and Inspectorate
9. Community Development Services and Special Projects
10. Ventures Management
11. Finance & Accounts
12. Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development
13. Special Duties
These departments are responsible for the effective 
execution and implementation of the details of the NYSC 
programmes which include orientation course, primary 
assignment, community development service, and winding-9
up/passing-out programmes, among others.
For a more robust and comprehensive understanding of the 
organisation and structure of the NYSC, it is pertinent to deepen 
7
National Youth Service Corps NYSC Hand Book revised in 1999, pp. 1-10.8 th 
National Youth Service Corps Yearbook 45 Anniversary Commemorative Edition 2018, p. 22.9 th   
National Youth Service  Corps Yearbook 45 Anniversary Commemorative  Edition 2018, p. 22-
24.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 202080
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

the discussion on the structure at the federal level before 
expanding that of the state and local government levels. This is 
apt because a surface examination of the structure of the NYSC 
would reveal a seemingly complex web of an organisation in 
which there would be a possible over-lapping of responsibilities 
and thus trigger animosity amongst staff which could result to 
underperformance of the system. On the contrary, however, an 
indebt examination of the organisation and structure of the 
scheme shows that the facial complexity is actually a catalyst for 
efficiency as every facet of endeavours which will promote the 
realisation of the overall objectives and purpose of the scheme is 
properly streamlined and catered for. For example, the 
Department of Planning, Research and Statistics is made up of 
four units which are: Policy and Plans Division; Research, 
Statistics and Library Division; Project Monitoring and 10 
Evaluation; and Technical Assistance Units. There are also 
branches in most of these units. For instance, while the Policy 
and Plans Division unit comprise Planning and Policy Analysis 
Branch, Research, Statistics & Records, and Liberty Branches 
make up the Research, Statistics and Library Division. The 
Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit is divided into two 
branches which are the Project Monitoring and, Evaluation 
branches.
It is the responsibility of the Department of Planning, 
Research and Statistics to, among others, coordinate the plans 
and programmes of all the various Departments of the NYSC, 
ensure the organisation and coordination of annual 
management conferences, ensure the proper organisation and 
coordination of pre-orientation workshops, organise and 
coordinate orientation course activities, plan and execute 
winding-up/passing-out activities. It is also the responsibility of 
the department to manage the records, library and archival 
resources of the NYSC, provide library services to both staff and 
researchers as we as the general public. The department also 
10
National Youth Service Corps, 2016 Annual Report of the Scheme, p. 1.
ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE NYSC 81
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

ensures that there are adequate facilities prior to the 
commencement of orientation camps, liaises with other 
collaborative agencies, local and international NGOs, to 
facilitate technical assistance, undertake evaluative studies and 
research, in order to determine the extent of the impact of the 
scheme and its activities. In addition to the above discussed 
responsibilities of the Department of Planning, Research and 
Statistics, the department also collects, analyses and evaluates 
reports on the scheme for management's use, sorts and monitors 
the performance and efficiency of every sub-unit to determine its 
usefulness or otherwise, assigns orientation duties to staff, 
engages in constant collation and processing of data statistics 
that relates to personnel, finance, physical resources, operations 11
and outputs, etc. 
From the above, it is obvious that the Department of Planning, 
Research and Statistics is one of the major engine rooms of the 
scheme, given its enormous responsibilities. The department 
stands as a general in a battle field, providing the strategies and 
coordinating the execution of the battle plan as well as 
monitoring and evaluating its success and failures in the overall 
interest of the purpose of the war. It is, therefore, not out of place 
to state that the structure of the NYSC in terms of planning, 
research and statistics is efficient as epitomised by the success 
and progress of the scheme so far. 
Another department in the organisation and structure of the 
NYSC is Community Development Service and Special Projects. 
Although this department does not have obvious branches, its 
responsibilities are very strategic as they focus on the core of 
youths' skill developments which is natured and enhanced in 
the course of community development service (CDS). Some of 
such responsibilities include: ensuring the groupings of CDS 
groups in line with the approved 16 groups of the scheme, 
providing the right mentoring which encourages corps 
members to embark on personal CDS activities that provide dual 
benefits, i.e. make the community better and also develop the 
11
National Youth Service Corps, 2016 Annual Report of the Scheme, pp. 1-2.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 202082
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

individual corps member; collating and analysing the reports of 
CDS reports from all the thirty- six states of the federation and 
the Federal capital Territory, and training of volunteers which 12 
assist at the various orientation camps.
Another important department in the structure of the NYSC 
scheme is Press and Public Relations Unit. Its three divisions are: 
publications, publicity and new media. It is the responsibility of 
the publications branch of the department to undertake the 
publication and distribution of the in-house journals of the 
scheme which include NYSC News Magazine, Security Tips, etc; 
monitor the production of journals from the various states and 
ensure that it conforms with the NYSC standard in terms of its 
content and quality, maintain and preserve a library of the 
various publications from the various state secretariats of the 
NYSC, and other organisations collaborating with the scheme, 
offer editorial advice on all NYSC publications, documents and 
other news items of the scheme.
The publicity branch is responsible for the advertising of the 
scheme's programmes and other activities that are not covered 
by the media relations, collating, processing and dissemination 
of information on the activities of the scheme to the general 
public, handling of the corporate image management of the 
NYSC via the adoption of a mix public relation strategies. The 
publicity branch is also responsible for ensuring the 
maintenance of cordial working relationship with the mass 
media to ensure effective coverage of all events of the scheme. 
Also, it organises press briefing for the Director-General when 
the need arises. 
New Media: This branch of the Press and Public Relations 
Department of the NYSC is responsible for the projection of the 
image of the scheme via the various social media which include: 
Instagram, Facebook, Twitter and whatsapp, to enable the 
scheme effectively and efficiently engage its stakeholders in a 
highly and ever increasing socially digital world. It also ensures 
12
National Youth Service Corps, 2016 Annual Report of the Scheme, pp. 7-8.
ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE NYSC 83
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

prompt response to on-demand engagement at any time and 
any place such demand is made. This ensures user - interactive 
feedback which enables the scheme to resolve issues speedily 
and provides correct information to curtail the spread of 
rumours; it also makes it possible for user - participation in real 13 
time communication to take place.
In addition to the above is the Department of General 
Services which has two branches or subdivisions namely: 
maintenance division and general service division. Its functions 
include the following: administration of the transport of the 
scheme, utility services, store management, maintenance 14 
services, office allocation, and security. This unit is particularly 
important in the structure of the NYSC as it ensures that facilities 
are in good condition in the scheme for effective and smooth 
operations. 
The Human Resource Management Department is yet another 
unit in the structure of the NYSC. It is made up of four divisions 
which are: Human Resources Planning with four subdivisions, 
Career management with three subdivisions, Training and 
Executive Development with two subdivisions, and Staff 15 
Welfare and Industrial Relations, with three subdivisions. The 
general responsibilities of the department include appointment, 
promotion and discipline of staff, manpower and succession 
planning, establishment matters, staff training and capacity 
development, career and performance management, industrial 
relations and labour matters, staff medical and health services, 
pension and post service matters, staff sports and games, 16 
secretariat of senior and junior staff committees. It is worthy of 
note that one of the cardinal objectives of the NYSC is youth 
empowerment and development. To achieve this, the officials of 
the scheme must be empowered to be in the proper frame of 
mind to help develop the corps members. 
13
National Youth Service Corps, 2016 Annual Report of the Scheme, pp. 9-10.14 15
National Youth Service Corps, 2016 Annual Report of the Scheme , p.11. National Youth 16
Service Corps, 2016 Annual Report of the Scheme, p.13. National Youth Service Corps, 2016 
Annual Report of the  Scheme, p.15.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 202084
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Therefore, the importance and relevance of the Department 
of Human Resource Management as an integral part of the 
organisation and structure of the NYSC cannot be over 
emphasised. There is also the Corps Welfare and Inspectorate 
Department which has the primary responsibility of monitoring 
the activities of corps members, seeing to their welfare and 
ensuring their security throughout the period of the service year. 
It comprises five subdivisions which are: corps welfare, corps 
insurance, corps health services, corps inspectorate, and corps 
merit & discipline. Other functions of the department include 
formulation of policies on inspection duties to be implemented 
at the State, zonal and local government levels; supervising the 
offices in charge of corps welfare in the state, zonal, and local 
government levels, embark on periodic inspection of the 
location of corps members across the federation to complement 
the efforts of the State Secretariat, Zonal as well as Local 
Government offices in terms of qualitative service delivery; 
ensure proper health service delivery for corps members 
through reimbursement of properly certified medical bills; 
maintain corps members' insurance policy, process payment of 
death benefits to next-of-kin of deceased corps members; 
ensuring a befitting burial for corps members who die in the 
course of the service year; coordinate merit award for corps 
members at the national level who have distinguished 
themselves during their service year; effect disciplinary action 
on corps members to serve as deterrent to aberrant behaviours; 
collaborate with INEC on the use of corps members as ad-hoc 
staff in concord with the MoU between NYSC and INEC; 
organise NYSC/stakeholders forum to ensure a broad-based 
consultation with the intention of widening the scope of 
intervention which would elicit cooperation from critical 
collaborators; hosting of NYSC management/corps members at 
the national level; organising training workshops for Inspectors 17 
Development Programmes and other stakeholders.
17
National Youths Service Corps, 2016 Annual Report of the Scheme, p.15.
ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE NYSC 85
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The role of this department in the structure of the NYSC is 
very important because it deals with issues that have direct 
impact on the corps members' welfare. If we take into 
cognizance the fact that most corps members are posted to places 
different from their states of origin in line with the philosophy of 
the scheme to forge unity and togetherness among Nigerians, 
especially the youths, it therefore becomes expedient to ensure 
that corps members are as comfortable as they could possibly be 
in their places of national assignments. This underscores the 
importance of the department of corps welfare and inspectorate. 
Another department in the structure of the NYSC is Corps 
Certification Department. The department's statutory function 
is the issuance of all NYSC instruments which are basically 
Certificates of National Service, Certificate of Exemption and 
Letters of Exclusion. The department has three subdivisions 
namely: a) certification, which has two branches of production 
and certification; b) Exemption, with equally has two branches 
of exemption and exclusion; c) Verification which is a standalone 18 
branch. The responsibility of issuing certificates to successful 
corps members who have completed their one year mandatory 
service to their fatherland or letters of exemption or exclusion is 
a 'sacred' duty to fatherland within the organisation and 
structure of the NYSC because the mandatory nature of the 
scheme and its acceptability makes its certificates a sine qua non 
for graduate youths of Nigeria, moving forward. There is the 
tendency of persons not qualified to be issued any of the NYSC 
certificates which amounts to such persons getting it illegally. It 
is thus the duty of the department of corps certification to ensure 
that such illegal acquisition of the certificates of the NYSC is not 
possible.
There is also the Procurement Department. This department 
is saddled with the responsibility of handling all procurement 
matters, including works and services. The department has two 
subdivisions which are: the capital procurement and the 
18
National Youth Service Corps, 2016 Annual Report of the Scheme, p. 21.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 202086
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

recurrent procurement. More specifically, the department 
draws procurement scheduling by specifying time-line within 
which goods and services would be acquired and delivered in a 
fiscal year. The department also prepares the annual 
procurement plan for both capital and recurrent expenditures, 
and ensures an effective and vibrant tenders board secretariat 
responsible for ensuring compliance with the provisions of the 
Public Procurement Act, 2007. It also conducts periodic market 
survey in order to gather necessary information on the prices of 
goods and services to guide the award of contracts; ensures, 
through proper monitoring, that the quantity and quality of 
goods, works and services supplied to the scheme are of specific 
as well as acceptable standard; records and maintains electronic 
19 
database on contractors and suppliers for the scheme.
Again, this department is very strategic within the 
organisation and structure of the scheme as it deals with all the 
supplies and other materials used by corps members during the 
year of services. Any lapses on the part of this department 
especially in the mobilisation and camping of corps members 
could obliterate an already established positive public opinion 
and perception of the efficiency and efficacy of the organisation 
and structure of the NYSC. Thus, the role of procurement 
department is very important in the structure of the scheme. 
Furthermore, there is the Corps Mobilisation Department 
which is charged with the responsibility of mobilising all eligible 
Nigerian graduates of both local and foreign universities and 
polytechnics for national service. The department which is made 
up of three subdivisions of mobilisation, evaluation and 
deployment, is equally responsible for the formulation of 
guidelines for the deployment of corps members for the effective 
utilisation of their skills in their places of primary assignment for 
the overall good of the community; exemption of all Nigerian 
graduates who are not qualified to serve, in line with the 
19
National Youth Service Corps, 2016 Annual Report of the Scheme, p. 24.
ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE NYSC 87
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

provisions of the NYSC Act; relocation of corps members when 
necessary during and after orientation exercises; collaborating 
with corps producing institutions, examination bodies and the 
Federal Ministry of Education to ensure seamless mobilisation 
exercises; revalidation of mobilised graduates who failed to turn 
up for national service; remobilisation of corps members who 
absconded in the course of national service, etc. 
Another department in the organisation and structure of the 
NYSC is the Information and Communication Technology 
Department. This department which was added to the structure 
of the scheme in 2012 given the exigency of the time and the need 
to digitalise the organisation of the scheme has two subdivisions 
which are: a) hardware/software service divisions, made up of 
hardware development support &software development 
support; and (b) data management service, comprising 
application support & data control. Its functions include: 
enforcement of standards and procedures of administration and 
management of software system in the scheme; promoting the 
use of ICT in the operations of the scheme for better services of 
staff, via e-governance initiative, including the development of 
the required software in a coordinated manner; initiating the 
direction and plans for the ICT infrastructure of the scheme; 
ensuring the development, implementation as well as 
maintenance of software application that responds to the 
20 
common needs of different departments of the scheme.
The establishment of this department in 2012 is one of the 
changes in the organisation and structure of the NYSC scheme. 
The change was occasioned by the need to improve efficiency 
and effectiveness of staff in the general operation of the scheme, 
and bring to bear in its day-to-day activities, the positive impact 
of ICT in a humongous organisation as the NYSC.  
20
National Youth Service Corps, 2016 Annual Report of the Scheme, p.27.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 202088
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Legal Unit is another department of the scheme. It is an 
autonomous unit that is directly under the office of the Director- 
General. The major functions of the unit is to provide legal 
advice by rendering qualitative legal advice to the management 
of the NYSC on administrative issues; represent the scheme in 
courts and arbitral panels in the prosecution and defence of cases 
involving the NYSC; formalise contracts agreements for supply 
of various items and drafting/vetting customised agreements, 
memoranda of understanding and other legal instruments 
between the NYSC and other persons; coordinate the activities 
of the Corps Legal Aid Scheme which renders free quality legal 
services to indigent in-mates and members of the society in need 
of legal assistance; host the secretariat of the NYSC National 
Governing Board; and carry out other administrative duties 
21
assigned to the unit.
Also a department in the structure of the NYSC is the Skills 
Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development Department. 
The mandate of this department is first and foremost to promote 
and cultivate the culture of self-reliance amongst corps members 
by organising series of entrepreneurship and hands-on training, 
and also leverage on the availability of existing institutions for 
resource mobilisation for corps entrepreneurs. The strategy 
adopted by the department include: capacity building, 
collaboration & partnership development, advocacy and policy 
22 
influencing, as well as monitoring & evaluation. Its other 
responsibilities include formulation and implementation of 
policies on corps entrepreneurship development programmes; 
development and building of partnership with necessary 
stakeholders on the entrepreneurship issues; establishing 
contacts and connections with relevant employment agencies; 
supervising , monitoring and evaluating NYSC 
entrepreneurship programmes; providing corps members with 
advice and counselling on jobs; and linking corps entrepreneurs 
21
National Youth Service Corps, 2016 Annual Report of the Scheme, pp.28-29.22
National Youth Service Corps, 2016 Annual Report of the Scheme, p. 29.
ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE NYSC 89
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

23
with funding agencies for start-up capitals, among others.
It is necessary to stress that this department is particularly 
important in the structure of the NYSC scheme because it deals 
with the aspect of the programme of the scheme which 
empowers the corps members and equips them to become 
employers of labour rather than employees. The importance of 
this department and its activities is most appreciated often by 
the corps members in the post service year when they put the 
entrepreneurial knowledge and skills acquired during the 
NYSC service year to gainful use to make them better people.
In addition to all these departments in the organisation and 
structure of the NYSC is the Ventures Management Department. 
This again was a recent addition to the structure of the scheme in 
2012. The essence was to rehabilitate and maintain farm 
settlements and ventures to meet the needs of the scheme in 
terms of training and empowerment of youths towards self-
reliance, corps members' kits, and feeding in orientation camps. 
One of the economic importance of this department is reduction 
in the cost of food and other items that would otherwise be 
bought during orientation camps. The department is comprised 
of four subdivisions which are: arable farm, animal husbandry, 
factories, and mills. Its functions include: the formulation and 
implementation of policies on NYSC ventures; coordination, 
supervision and monitoring of NYSC farms and Agric 
programmes and services; ensures the organisation of 
workshops as well as training programmes for corps members, 
farms, mills and NYSC factory officers; building and nurturing 
of partnership with stakeholders for NYSC ventures; 
coordination of farm settlements involving NYSC; and 
24 
commercialisation of inventions by corps members.
There is also the Audit unit which is directly responsible to 
the Director General of the NYSC. The unit has two subdivisions, 
23
National Youth Service Corps, 2016 Annual Report of the Scheme , p.30.24
National Youth Service Corps, 2016 Annual Report of the Scheme, p. 31.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 202090
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

namely: National Directorate Headquarter and Store Audit, and 
State Secretariats and Ventures Audit. The functions of this 
department are: to ensure compliance with extant rules and 
regulations on financial matters by providing internal checks; 
ensure that the system for the collation of revenue is adequate; 
also ensure that expenditure and payments are duly authorised; 
crosscheck to ensure that there are adequate means for the 
verification of all stores and assets of the scheme; ensure the 
accurate keeping of account records and books; and check the 
overall operation of the scheme for economic purpose, efficiency 
25 
and effectiveness.
There is also the Finance and Account Department. This 
department has four main subdivisions with several units in 
them. These are: a) Account Division consisting of: other 
charges, salaries, checking and, final accounts. (b) Budget 
Division made up of: recurrent expenditure, capital expenditure 
and, budget monitoring. (c) Directorate Headquarters/State 
Fund Division made up of Cash Office, Advances and State 
Accounts. (d) Venture/Special Projects division which 
comprises: ventures, SDGs/HIV/AIDS, and Pension & 
Gratuity. The cardinal responsibilities of this department are to 
provide financial advice to the Director-General of the NYSC 
who is the chief accounting officer of the scheme, and other 
departmental heads of the organisation; ensure that the 
appropriate in-built controls are established in the accounting 
system of the scheme; and manage all funds and public money 
due and receivable in the organisation. Other functions of the 
finance department are effectively discharged by the 
subdivisions. For example, the accounts division provides 
advise to the Director, Finance and Accounts, on the effective 
allocation of financial resources to the various departments of 
the scheme. The budget division is involved in the preparation, 
submission as well as defence of the budget of the scheme. The 
processing of mandate and payment of all vouchers and 
25
National Youth Service Corps, 2016 Annual Report of the Scheme, p.33.
ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE NYSC 91
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

mandates processed through GIFMIS/REMITAS are the duties 
of the DHQ/ State Fund Division. The aspect of processing 
payments via mandates to resource persons for SDGs 
training/WAP training and WAP loans to SDGS ex-corps 
entrepreneurs is the duty of Ventures/Special projects 
Divisions. Other Charges Unit is responsible for the raising of 
payment vouchers for all approvals, keeping records of 
departmental cash allocations and expenditures, and ensuring 
that vote books are maintained, updated and balanced. Salaries 
Unit is responsible for the preparation and processing of 
payment of staff salaries through IPPIS. It is the duty of the 
Checking Unit to ensure that there is compliance for all 
payments as stipulated by existing rules and financial 
regulations. The Final Accounts Unit is responsible for the 
preparation and submission of transcripts to the Office of the 
Accountant-General of the Federation (OAGF). Cash Office Unit 
is in charge of receiving/processing of all income voucher and 
mandates processed through GIFMIS/REMITA. Processing of 
approved coordinated tour allowances, DTA mandates, 
maintenance and updating of individual loan ledger are the 
responsibilities of Advances Unit. While State Accounts Unit has 
the responsibility of preparing AIEs for funds remitted to State 
S e c r e t a r i a t  a n d  F C T ,  a s  w e l l  a s  p r o c e s s i n g  o f  
orientation/passing-out expenses, and treating of relocation 
and interstate adjustments of corps members' monthly 
26
allowance.
The last but not the least department is the Reforms Unit in 
the office of the Director-General. This department emerged as 
one of the changes in the structure of NYSC in line with the 
Public Service reform Initiative of the Federal Government of 
Nigeria. Basically, it has three subdivisions which are: Service 
Delivery, Gender, and Distress Call Centre. Each of the 
subdivisions has specified responsibilities within the 
department. For instance, the Service Delivery branch ensures 
26
National Youth Service Corps, 2016 Annual Report of the Scheme, pp.34-35.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 202092
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

that services are delivered timely and effectively at all service 
windows, receives and directs visitors at the National 
Directorate Headquarters to the appropriate places within the 
complex, ensures that the resolution of complaints from various 
service windows and clients using the official grievances redress 
mechanism of the scheme as encapsulated in the charter of 
NYSC through official telephone lines, customer comment 
cards, SERVICOM Customer Relations Activities Register and 
suggestion boxes, provide enlightenment for both staff and 
corps members on service delivery, prepare a comprehensive 
service charter for the scheme, monitor to ensure service 
delivery and compliance of the scheme, organise seminars and 
workshops for staff of the scheme to educate them on the 
appropriate method to actualise the reforms initiative, and train 
as well as monitor SERVICOM Corps vanguards across the 
country. The Gender branch is responsible for sensitising NYSC 
staff and corps members on gender issues, addressing issues of 
violence especially against female corps members, provide 
appropriate counselling for corps members and staff that are 
victims of gender-based violence, liaise with appropriate 
organisations, development partners, government ministries, 
departments and agencies to carry out activities boarding on 
reproductive health, girl child education, violence against 
women, breast/cervical and other gender issues, and training as 
well as monitoring Gender Corps Vanguards nationwide. And 
the Distress call centre is responsible for receiving distress calls 
from corps members, staff and other stakeholders of the 27 
scheme.
The foregoing discussion on the organisation and structure 
of the NYSC at the federal level reveals that the nature of the 
structure takes into account the necessity for wholistic and 
detailed organisation of the scheme to ensure efficiency and 
deliver on the mandate of the scheme. This is epitomised by the 
subdivisions of the departments some of which are further 
divided into specified units. It is therefore not out of place to 
27
National Youth Service Corps, 2016 Annual Report of the Scheme, pp.35-36.
ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE NYSC 93
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

assert that the organisation and structure of the NYSC at the 
federal level is a complex web for efficiency.
Structure of the NYSC at the State Level
At the state level, the administrative structure of the NYSC is 
made up of committees whose membership are appointed to by 
the Governor of the State from the following: one person from 
the office of the Governor, usually in the grade of Permanent 
Secretary, to be the Chairman of the Committee, a member of the 
Armed Forces, a member of the Nigerian Police, A Principal 
Inspector (which was later re-christened Chief Inspector), four 
other people each to represent commerce, agriculture and 
28 
natural resources, and local government. It is important to 
point out that in most states of the federation the Chairman of the 
Committees were usually the State Commissioners of 
29 
Education. The State Secretariat which is the administrative 
office of the NYSC at the state level is usually located in the 
capital of each state, and headed by a Chief Inspector who has 
the responsibility of seeing to the day-to-day running of the 
scheme in the state. Like at the national Directorate where the 
Director-General is the overall accounting office of the scheme in 
the country, the State Chief Inspectors are the chief accounting 
officers in the various states. They ensure the proper 
organisation of orientation camp programmes especially the 
seminars for corps members in the state and the passing-out 
parade. It is also the responsibility of the State Chief Inspectors to 
act on complaints from corps members and their employers in 
their areas of primary assignments; very importantly, the Chief 
30 
Inspector is answerable to the Director-General of the NYSC.
28 
Samuel O. Asein, Call to Service: Twenty Years of the National Youth Service Corps Scheme, 
1973- 1993, pp. 43-45.29 
Chioma Onwere, “National Youth Service Corps Programme and National Integration 
in Nigeria”, Ph.D Thesis, Department of International and Comparative Education, 
Institute of Education, University of London, 1992, pp. 95-96.30 
Chioma Onwere, “National Youth Service Corps Programme and national Integration 
in Nigeria”, Ph.D Thesis, Department of International and Comparative Education, 
Institute of Education, University of London, 1992, pp. 95-96.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 202094
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The last administrative structure of the scheme at the Local 
Government level is grouped in to zones. In fact, given the three- 
tire structure of the NYSC, the State Secretariat could be said to 
be the spinal cord of the scheme. Nonetheless, the zonal offices at 
the Local Government serves as a point of contact for corps 
members especially those posted to remote and distant places 
where it could be difficulty and economically unwise to travel to 
the state secretariat often to resolve minor issues. Thus, the 
Zonal Offices of the NYSC is strategic in its administrative 
organisation and structure.
Changes in the Organisation and Structure of the NYSC
In every human institution and endeavour, change is a 
continuum. Since its establishment in 1973, the NYSC has not 
remained stagnant in terms of its organisation and structure. As 
time evolved, new exigencies emerged which required that the 
scheme should rejig its organisation and structure to 
accommodate emerging needs for more efficient operation of 
the scheme. Interestingly, while the basic structure of the scheme 
has remained largely unchanged since its inception, the various 
changes which has taken place overtime, did not radically alter 
the organisation and structure of the NYSC as designed from the 
on-set. However, the changes which have taken place in the 
scheme has been in line with the general policy of the Federal 
Government, or the vision of the various Director- Generals 
when appointed to office. This pre-supposes that while the 
overall aim and objectives of the NYSC remained sacrosanct, 
and the organisational structure to realise these objectives has 
also remained fairly unchanged, there have been, over the years, 
various leaderships at the Directorate of the NYSC with various 
ideas on how to speedily and more efficiently attain the 'sacred 
objectives' of the scheme. It was, therefore, the administrative 
styles of the Director-Generals (DG) in the attempt to achieve the 
objectives of the NYSC and the goals of the DG, and the 
challenges faced by the scheme at the time, that informed the 
type and nature of changesin the organisation and the structure 
ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE NYSC 95
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

of the NYSC. For example, at the inception of the scheme in 1973, 
the structure comprised the Directorate (which was later 
renamed National Directorate) and the State Committee alone. 
However, later on, there was the establishment of the zonal 
system and the used of Corps Liaison Officers at the Local 31 
Government level to meet the increasing need of the scheme,
especially the increase in the number of graduates mobilised for 
national service under the scheme.
Furthermore, the structure of the scheme at the state level 
was changed due to political decisions of the Federal 
Government. In 1973 when the scheme began, the State 
Secretariat were twelve, but three years later, 1976 to be precise, 
the administrative units at the state level increased to nineteen 
from the initial twelve with the creation of more* states in 
Nigeria. By 1986, it increased to twenty-one as there was again 
the creation of more states. And by 1991, it became thirty units, 32 
then the present thirty-six with the FCT. Thus, political decision 
by the government often necessitated the rejigging of the 
organisation and structure of the NYSC. It is worthy to mention 
that the status of the head of the scheme at the state level was also 
restructured. Prior to 1990, the head of the NYSC State 
Secretariat was a Chief Inspector who at the inception of the 
scheme was addressed as Principal Inspector but was later 
rechristened Chief Inspector. Given the administrative 
restructuring occasioned by the civil service reforms of the 
Federal Government of Nigeria, the status of the NYSC State 
Chief Inspectorate was elevated to that of a Directorate. In this 
new structure, the Chief Inspector became known as the State 
Director. He/she functions as the head of administration of the 33 
scheme in the state. This elevation of the State Inspectorate to 
Directorate was done to empower the states and enable it to 
discharge more responsibilities bearing in mind that most of the 
operations and activities of the scheme revolves around the 
31
Samuel O. Asein, Call To Service: Twenty Years of the National Youth Service Corps Scheme, 
1973- 1993, P.4.32 
Samuel O. Asein, Call To Service: Twenty Years of the National Youth Service Corps Scheme, 
1973-1993, P.47.33
Interview with Abdullahi Muhammed, Former Staff of NYSC Sokoto State, 2001/2002, th 
on 10 August, 2020, in Abuja.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 202096
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

states. It was therefore necessary for the states to be adequately 
empowered and equipped for the responsibilities on its 
shoulders. It has been noted that: 
the changes in the number of states have necessitated 
the creation of new lines of relationship between the 
central body and its constituents state directorates; it 
has entailed increased budgetary implications in 
terms of creation and development of appropriate 
infrastructural facilities, increased manpower needs 
and inevitable strain on the human resource 
capacity, especially after the 'purges' that have taken 
place. Because changes resulting from state creations 
have always taken place half way through the 
service year, considerable re-organisation has often 
had to be embarked upon to reflect the new 
territorial boundaries of existing state directorates 
and to realign with both the centre as well as the new 34
offshoots.
Further changes in the organisation and structure of the scheme 
were policy implementation aimed at ameliorating the 
challenges faced either by NYSC staff or corps members 
themselves. For instance, in 1997, collaboration with other 
agencies were put in place. Such include: NYSC/Israeli 
Embassy collaboration, NYSC/ University of Colorado, USA, 35 
etc. To further motivate corps members for greater productivity 
in their primary places of assignment, the scheme in its re-
organisation introduced a policy were employers of corps 
members were obliged to provide transportation either in terms 
of vehicle or allowance to corps members to facilitate efficient 
and effective discharge of their duties at the place of primary 36
assignment . To encourage employers of corps members to 
34 
Samuel O. Asein, Call To Service: Twenty Years of the National Youth Service Corps 
Scheme, 1973-1993, pp.47-48.35 th th 
Proceedings of NYSC 1998 Annual Management Conference held from 24 -27
March, 1998, at Country Home Motel, Benin City, Edo State, p.12.36 
See NYSC Hand Book Revised in 1995, p.22.
ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE NYSC 97
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

implement this new policy, the scheme, prior to the effecting the 
policy, increased the transport allowance of corps members. In 
the same vain, the scheme equally came up with a change in its 
operations where pregnant corps members on maternity leave, 
who hitherto received allowance but were to serve extension to 
make up for the maternity period were henceforth to be paid full 
monthly allowance for the period of the maternity and would 
not need to serve and extension on account of maternity, instead, 
the usual three weeks terminal leave granted to corps members 
at the end of the service year was now to be regarded as part of 
the maternity leave and would no longer be granted to pregnant 37 
corps members at the end of the year.
Similarly, by 1998 the scheme re-organised its operations in 
some departments for greater efficiency and accountability. A 
system of pre-auditing of all payment vouchers at the National 
Directorate Headquarters (NDHQ) on daily basis was put in 
place. All items and materials supplied to the central store at the 
NDHQ must henceforth be properly verified, quarterly taking of 
stock in the central store was also put in place; post-auditing of 
all centres and areas of revenue generation of the scheme was 
equally established, and a system where staff and management 
of the scheme both at the NDHQ and the States Secretariats 
would be periodically audited was enshrined the operations of 
38 
the NYSC. This was to ensure proper financial accounting and 
accountability in the various transactions of the scheme with 
other corporate establishments, and to curb the tendency for 
corruption in the system. It was expected that this adjustment in 
the policy of the scheme will also be adopted by the State 
39 
Directorates for greater efficiency of the scheme.
37 
NYSC Hand Book Revised in 1995, p.23.38 th th 
Proceedings of NYSC 1998 Annual Management Conference held from 24 -27 March, 
1998, at Country Home Motel, Benin City, Edo State, p.19.39
Interview with Bassey Okon Bassey, former store-keeper, NYSC State Secretariat, th 
Calabar, Cross River State, on 11 August, 2020.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 202098
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Prior to this time, the scheme had expanded its structure via 
the creation of Zonal Offices at the state level to ensure that corps 
members in every nook and cranny of the states of deployments 
had easy access to NYSC officials in the course of their service to 
their fatherland. To this end, at the meeting of the National 
Directorate with Directors and Assistant Directors of NYSC, th th 
held from 14 -15 March, 1991, at Sheraton Hotel and Towers, 
Abuja, the policy was reiterated and directive given for 
immediate implementation of the new structure. For example, 
the chairman and DG of the NYSC at the meeting in Sheraton, 
stated that:
at the Calabar meeting of the Honourable Minister 
for Youths and Sports, it was agreed that states 
should assess their needs for setting up of NYSC 
Zonal offices in each state and make their reports to 
the Headquarters. He reminded conference 
participants that the Headquarters of zones must be 
in the Local Government Headquarters and central 
so that it could be easily reached by corps members 
within each zone. He then called for progress reports 
to assess the preparation and readiness by the states 40
for the take-off of the Zonal Offices.
It is important to bear in mind, as stated earlier in this 
discourse, that the changes in the organisation and structure of 
the NYSC overtime, were informed and necessitated by the 
challenges confronting the scheme, and the vision of the DG 
towards tackling those challenges. It has been observed that DGs 
often do not unilaterally discard the policies which their 
predecessors had put in place. What often takes place is that 
successive DGs continue to improve on the good policies of their 
predecessors, while introducing new ones in addition, to 
meeting the needs of the scheme in the current time. This 
undocumented principal of continuing with previous good 
policies of the scheme by successive DGs has resulted in policy 
40
See minutes of meeting NO.1/1991 of the National Director with Directors and th th   
Assistant Directors of NYSC, held from 14 -15 March, 1991, at Sheraton Hotel and 
Towers, Abuja, p. 18.
ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE NYSC 99
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

stability and overall good performance of the scheme so far. 
Thus, the creation of the zonal offices of the NYSC at the state 
level was in line with the vision of the management of the 
scheme at that time. For instance, part of the vision of the DG at 
the period in discuss was reported thus: 
While noting the great role which the youths had to 
play in the national development, he (DG) 
acknowledged the tremendous contributions which 
the scheme had made to the growth and 
development of the country in the past 18 years as 
well as the efforts of the past administrators of the 
scheme towards its success so far. Taking off from his 
previous position that if much had been 
accomplished in the past, much more could be done 
and achieve now……My dream here is one of lifting 
the scheme to a greater height- far higher than could 
be imagined. In furtherance of this philosophy, he 
said that the impact of the scheme as a service 
organisation must not only be felt more and more by 
the society, but that the scheme must also move in a 
new positive direction and strengthen its operation. 
He said the aim, among others, is to put in place a 
more vibrant scheme, operating as one big family, 
spreading its tentacles everywhere to effect national 
unity and development in every nook and cranny of 
the country. In short, I want a scheme that can be 
relied upon to do a nice job at all times, no matter the 41 
nature or circumstances.
In furtherance of the DG's vision above, other changes were 
introduced in the organisation of the scheme to overcome 
administrative bottlenecks that slowed the pace of progress of 
the scheme. Some of the new policies include ensuring 
41 
See minutes of meeting NO.1/1991 of the National Director with Directors and th th   
Assistant Directors of NYSC, held from 14 -15 March, 1991, at Sheraton Hotel and 
Towers, Abuja, p. 18.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020100
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

adherence to the policy of job placement for corps members. The 
policy insisted on corps members being posted to areas relevant 
to their subject discipline and, more importantly, where their 
services were needed. This was to curb the increasing rate of 
corps rejection by employers where they were posted for 
primary assignments. State Directors were to ensure the 
implementation of the new policy and also ensure that there 
were more openings for the placement of corps members for 42 
primary assignments. The policy also required the Federal 
Government to allocate some projects slated to be financed by 
the Local Government to corps members at the grassroot. 
Furthermore, there was a change in the nomenclature of the Job 
Placement Unit of the NYSC scheme to a new one known as Job 43
Advisory and Counselling Unit.
As a means of motivating the top echelon of the scheme, to 
put in more efforts towards the realisation of the goals of the 
NYSC, there was a re-organisation of the salaries of Directors of 
the scheme to reflect that of their counterparts in the civil service. 
Thus, to this effect, the salaries of NYSC Directors were adjusted 
to that of Grade Level 17 like that of their counterparts in other 44 
Federal Government establishments.
It should be noted that at the inception of the scheme in 1973, 
enrolment by Nigerian graduates for the NYSC service was not 
mandatory. In fact, the first set of graduates that were mobilised 
for the service were from the universities existing then, which 
were: University of Ibadan, Ibadan; University of Nigeria, 
Nsukka; Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria; University of Ife, Ile-
Ife; University of Lagos; and University of Benin. Graduates of 
other tertiary institutions were initially excluded from the 
scheme on the grounds that the scheme was just in its first year; 
its trial year. It was therefore important to limit the numbers of 
42
See minutes of meeting NO.1/1991 of the National Director with Directors and Assistant th th 
Directors of NYSC, held from 14 -15 March, 1991, at Sheraton Hotel and Towers, Abuja, p. 3.43
Minutes of meeting NO.1/1991 of the National Director with Directors and Assistant th th 
Directors of NYSC, held from 14 -15 March, 1991, at Sheraton Hotel and Towers, Abuja, p. 7.44 
Minutes of meeting NO.1/1991 of the National Director with Directors and Assistant th   th   
Directors of the   NYSC, held from 14 -15 March, 1991, at Sheraton Hotel and Towers, Abuja, 
p. 10.
ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE NYSC 101
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

participants in that first year to enable the organisers learn the 45 st st 
ropes. However, between 1 July of 1977 and 31 July of 1985, it 
became mandatory for all Nigerian graduates who studied in 
institutions of higher learning, either in Nigeria or abroad, to 
participate in the National Youth Service Scheme, age 
notwithstanding. In fact, exemption from the scheme on the 
ground of age was abolished in July 1977, but was re-instated by 46 
July of 1985. This structural change in the organisation of the 
scheme had what could be described as an 'almost instant effect' 
on the population of participating corps members. For example, 
it has been stated that:
In 1973/74, 2,258 graduates constituted the 
foundation of the NYSC Scheme and by its fourth 
year, the number had risen to 5,944…. This number of 
participants has been tentatively recorded as 10, 200 
for the 1977/78 service year, representing an increase 
of 41.7% over the previous year's figure. This 
remarkable increase, the highest annual increase 
since the establishment of the scheme, was due to the 
changes in the scope and terms of participation 
coupled with the abolition of the age limit with effect 
from 1977. Female participation rate which was 47
13.6% in 1973/74 rose to 19.9% in 1977/ 78.
However, graduates of some professional courses as medicine, 
law, pharmacy, etc, were authorised to do their one-year 
apprenticeship or professional programme before embarking on 
the national service. Interestingly, it was the age as at the time of 
graduation that will be taken in to cognizance for lawyers and 
medical doctors for mobilisation for the national services. This 
means that once a law graduate or medical students successfully 
45 
Samuel O. Asein, Call To Service, Twenty Years of the National Youth Service Scheme,1973-
1993, p. 49.46
National Youth Service Corps, NYSC Hand Book Revised in 1999, pp. 11-12.47 
Folayan Ojo, Evaluation on Four Tears of the National Youth Service Corps Scheme, National 
Youth Service Corps Directorate Headquarters, Lagos, November, 1977. P.16.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020102
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

completes his/her programme in the university, and thereafter 
proceed to law school or internship, the NYSC would only 
consider the age of the person when he/she graduated from the 
university, not the age when he/ she will be completing the 
professional apprenticeship. Worthy of note is the fact that 
graduates of other disciplines who do not engage in mandatory 
professional programmes were expected to complete their one-
year service before embarking on programmes of higher degrees 
like M.A, M. SC. etc. According to Decree 51 of June 1993, it is 
o n l y  t h o s e  w h o  s u c c e s s f u l l y  g r a d u a t e d  f r o m  a  
Degrees/Diploma awarding institution that could be mobilised 48
for the national service under the scheme.
In the course of mobilising graduates for national service 
under the NYSC Scheme, it was observed that there were cases 
of omissions and wrong postings of corps members. To redress 
this issue, a three-layer policy was put in place within the 
structure of the scheme. First, prior to the commencement of 
orientation in the various NYSC camps across the country, 
Schedule Officers in the various institutions are used to effect 
corrections of omissions and wrong posting. Second, while the 
actual orientation is on-going, the State Coordinator facilitated 
corrections from the Directorate, and thirdly, after orientation, 
the National Directorate could still effect corrections via States 49 
Secretariats of the NYSC. The essence of infusing this measures 
in the structure of the scheme was to ensure that issues of 
omissions and wrong posting, which often times were not 
deliberate, were resolve speedily by the national Directorate to 
facilitate smooth take-of the corps members' service year. 
Added to the forgoing was the change in the policy of 
redeployment. Usually, the organisation of the NYSC scheme 
created room for redeployment of corps members with genuine 
and important reasons, from states where they were initially 
posted to other states after due examination and confirmation of 
the sincerity of the person applying for redeployment. However, 
48 
National Youth Service Corps, NYSC Hand Book Revised in 1999, pp. 12-13.49 
National Youth Service Corps, NYSC Hand Book Revised in 1999, p. 13.
ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE NYSC 103
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

the management of the scheme realised that they were cases of 
abuse of redeployment procedures. Corps members who did not 
feel comfortable with their posting often did everything possible 
to be redeployed to states of their choices. This negates the 
objective of the scheme and the policy of posting of corps 
members which is to ensure that corps members are posted to 
other parts of the country different from the places of origin so 
that they can learn the cultures of others and have a better 
understanding of the total way of life of the people as well as 
contribute to the development of the community where they 
serve. The overall aim as discussed above is to promote unity 
among Nigerian youths and to empower them for future 
responsibilities. It is therefore antithetical and indeed inimical to 
the realisation of the objectives of the scheme to redeploy corps 
members without sincere cases to other places. Thus, a new 
policy was put in place in the annals of the organisation of the 
scheme to minimise abuses of redeployment. Redeployment of 50 
corps members was henceforth to be done on quarterly basis.
Room was, however, made for emergency cases only.
Furthermore, administratively, there was also the 
restructuring of the Technical Services Department which was 
created in 1989 as part of the re-organisation of the NYSC. The 
purpose of the re- organisation of the Technical Department was 
for effective management and utilisation of available resources 
of the scheme. It was noticed that the enthusiasm which greeted 
the setting up of the Community Development Service (which 
focussed on farming) dwindled in no time, in spite of the huge 
financial investment of the scheme in the projects. Put 
differently, the NYSC did not get returns on investment in the 
CDS which focused on farming. Therefore, it became expedient 
to re-structure the department for greater efficiency and return 
on investment. To this end, the department which hitherto was 
made up of five main divisions was prune down to three 
50
Minutes of meeting NO.1/1991 of the National Director with Directors and Assistant th th 
Directors of NYSC, held from 14 -15 March, 1991, at Sheraton Hotel and Towers, Abuja, 
p. 21.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020104
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

comprising CDS Farms with the following units: Crop 
Production, Livestock/Food Processing, and Finance and 
Marketing. The second division, known as Engineering and 
Building Works, had as its sub-units the following: Mechanical/ 
Automobile, Electrical/Maintenance, Design and Planning, and 
Construction. The third division was Community Development 
Services made up of Social Services Unit and Environmental 51 
Improvement Unit.
It is important to point out that the restructuring above in the 
organisation of the NYSC was apt as it was strategic, because it 
was result -oriented and actually brought about improvement in 
the NYSC CDS farms. Other sub-units in the divisions equally 
became more efficient and result-oriented. More importantly, 
there was a gradual return on the investment of the scheme as 
the output of the Community Development Services farms 
became available and useful during orientation camps to 52 
support the feeding of corps members. There was also 
adjustment in the orientation programme of the scheme. This 
was in the introduction of Skill Acquisition and 
Entrepreneurship Development Programme. The need for this 
adjustment in the structure of the contents of the orientation 
programme was the nature of the challenges faced by corps 
members in their post-service years, in terms of employment. 
Recall that apart from graduates of disciplines such as law, 
medicine, pharmacy, etc, who had to undertake one-year 
professional programme after their university education, the 
bulk of graduates from other disciplines were often mobilised 
directly from their various institutions for national service under 
the NYSC scheme. Most of these graduates, prior to their 
mobilisation from their institutions where they studied, had 
probably never worked nor earned income of their own. The 
one-year NYSC national service thus becomes for them the first 
51 
Minutes of meeting NO.1/1991 of the National Director with Directors and Assistant th th   
Directors of NYSC, held from 14 -15 March, 1991, at Sheraton Hotel and Towers, Abuja, 
p. 23.52
Interview with Bassey Okon Bassey, former store-keeper, NYSC State Secretariat, th 
Calabar, Cross River State, on 11 August, 2020.
ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE NYSC 105
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

experience of employment and opportunity to start a life of 53 
financial independence from their parents.
Observably, upon the completion of the one-year of national 
service, most corps members develop new life styles and 
financial independence which makes it difficult for them to fit in 
the former life-style of living under the roof and control of their 
parents, and more importantly, depend again on them for 54 
financial sustenance due to lack of jobs after the service year.
Apart from the fact that this situation is not in tandem with the 
objectives of the scheme which, among others, is to empower the 
Nigerian youth, the post- service condition of many corps 
members results to frustration which could lead to crime, 
corruption, and create a situation around the post-service corps 
member where the values of the orientation training could be 
jettisoned in preference for any means of survival. This situation 
was unacceptable to the Management of the NYSC. Therefore, to 
ameliorate this situation and empower corps members to have 
something to fall back on and start a living after the mandatory 
service year, there was the introduction of the Skills Acquisition 
and Entrepreneurship Development Programme (SAED) into 
the curriculum of the orientation course of the scheme. The 
programme, which is dual faceted, is made of in-camp training 55 
as well as post-camp training. This was to ensure a more 
holistic development of the latent skills in corps members and 
also expose them to new and simple skills with which they can 
become self- employed, and even become employers of labour. 
Statistics available suggest that the Skills Acquisition and 
Entrepreneurial Development Programme has been very 56 
successful because over seven thousand ex-corps members
have been able to put the knowledge acquired from the 
53 st 
Interview with Abimbola Ojo, Corps members, Lagos State, 1 August, 2020.54
Interview with Philomena Oluwatosin Ajayi, Former Corps Member, 2017/202018, th 
Ibadan, 5 August, 2020.55 th 
National Youth Service Corps Yearbook, 45 Anniversary Commemorative Edition, 
2018, p. 17.56 th 
National Youth Service Corps Yearbook, 45 Anniversary Commemorative Edition, 
2018, p. 17.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020106
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

programme to use by establishing thriving businesses in various 
parts of the country. 
Indeed, the introduction of SAED into the scheme was no 
doubt a re-organisation that facilitated the attainment of a major 
objective of the scheme, which is to empower Nigerian Youths. 
This was obvious because apart from the NYSC scheme, there 
was no other known programme in the country that has 
successfully mobilised so many Nigerian youths from different 
ethnic background and training, and has been able to 
successfully manage them in the course of the orientation 
programme. Moreover, no other institution in the country has 
been able to come up with a programme such as SAED, which 
arms the corps members with the skills to attain financial 
independence and become employers of labour, rather than 
ending up as job seekers after the service year. The objective of 
empowering Nigerian youths, which is a cardinal objective of 
the scheme, would certainly have been defeated if the NYSC was 
unable to design the SAED programme which prepares the 
corps members for life after service.
In the year 2014, there was, again, an expansion in the 
structure of the programme of the scheme. The Health Initiative 
for Rural Dwellers (HIRD) was introduced in response to the 
needs of the many rural communities where corps members 
serve. Basically, the initiative was to ensure the provision of 
quality and affordable healthcare for the people of the 
communities. In the early years of the scheme, there was a 
disparity in the posting of corps members between the urban 
centres and the rural areas because there was the concentration 
of industries and other establishments with the capacity to 57 
absorb corps members.
Cities such as Lagos, Kano, Port Harcourt, Enugu, etc, with 
industries and many companies received high numbers of corps 
members. This was to the detriment of the rural communities 
without establishments were corps members could be assigned 
57
Interview with Bassey Okon Bassey, former store-keeper, NYSC State Secretariat, th 
Calabar, Cross River State, on 11 August, 2020.
ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE NYSC 107
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

for their primary assignments. Rural communities could, 
therefore, not gain maximally from the services of corps 58 
members. Thus, the managers of the scheme saw this challenge 
and introduced the HIRD to bring medical services close to the 
people. There were equally other programmes that were put in 
place as Community Development Service, CDS, of the corps 
members, to ensure that rural dwellers harvested the gains of the 
NYSC. One of such programmes was the introduction and 
partnership of the scheme with the Road Safety Corps. This was 
important given the increasing need for the people of the rural 
areas to migrate to urban centres in search of job opportunities 
and better life. Of course, the differences in the life-style of the 
people in the city and those of rural dwellers was high. It was 
therefore important that inhabitants of the remote areas were 
schooled on the safety measures to cope with the urban life style. 
Thus, the introduction of Road Safety Group in the 
organisational structure of the NYSC as a Community 59 
Development Project was apt. It should be mentioned that the 
Road Safety Group of the corps members in the CDS did not 
concentrate on educating rural dwellers alone on safety 
procedures, those of them who served in the urban centres 
where high vehicular movement and long hours of traffic were 
experienced by commuters on daily basis participated actively, 
as part of their CDS, to decongest traffic, especially at junctions 
and inter-sections. 
Other such CDS groups as Reproductive Health & 
HIV/AIDs, Anti-Corruption, Service Delivery (which has to do 
with attitudinal change and rebranding), Drug Free and Quality 
Control, as well as specific medical support such as Red Cross, 60 
Breast Without Spot, Polio Plus, etc, were all put in place. This 
necessitated partnership between the parent bodies of these 
organisations in Nigeria and the NYSC, in order to first educate 
58 
Interview with Justina Atamma, Former Staff of NYSC, Cross River State, on 12, 
August, 2020.59 
Interview with Justina Atamma, Former Staff of NYSC, Cross River State, on 12, 
August, 2020.60
ABC of Community Development Service, A Publication of the National Youth Service Corps 
(NYSC) Community Development Service and Special Projects, June, 2014, p.4.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020108
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

the corps members, before they (the corps members) were 
posted out to their primary places of assignment where they 
were expected to engage in CDS in the areas enumerated above. 
It should be noted that apart from the collaborative CDS 
programmes discussed above, the nature of the organisation 
and structure of the CDS programmes of the NYSC made room 
for the formation of group community development services, 
such as: Corps Legal Aid Group, Sports Group, Cultural and 
Tourism Group (which often include band, dance, drama & 
tourism), Education Development Group (dealing with such 
issues as mass literacy, adult education, extra murals), ICT, 
Environmental Protection and Sanitation Group, Editorial/ 61
Publicity Group, Agro-Allied Group, Charity Group, etc.
The diversity, almost in all basic human endeavours, by the 
NYSC CDS programmes, was deliberately structured by the 
management of the scheme, over time, to ensure that emerging 
basic societal problems are tackled, or services provided for a 
more quality life for the people of the communities by the corps 
members. For example, when the scheme commenced in 1973, 
the HIV/AIDs pandemic had not emerged, and so the need for a 
group CDS on such issues was not necessary. However, as the 
pandemic increasingly became a threat to human existence, the 
need to educate people, especially the youths, on how to keep 
safe, became even more necessary. Thus, the re-organisation of 
the structure of the CDS was necessary to carter for the emerging 62 
and urgent needs of the society. It could therefore be 
confidently said that every adjustment in the organisation and 
structure of the NYSC was apt, not only because it is always a 
response to the needs of the communities, but also because it has 
often enhanced the living standard of the people of the 
communities. This is reflected in the acceptability of corps 
members in various communities across the country. In some 
cases, corps members who were outstanding and whose CDS 
impacted very positively on the people were rewarded in 
various ways.
61
ABC of Community Development Service, A Publication of the National Youth Service Corps 
(NYSC) Community Development Service and Special Projects, June, 2014, p.4.62 
Interview with Justina Atamma, Former Staff of NYSC, Cross River State, on 12 August, 
2020.
ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE NYSC 109
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Fig. 6: Brig. Gen. Shuaibu Ibrahim, Director –General NYSC
th 
In recent times, especially from 10 May, 2019, when the current 
Director-General of the NYSC, Brig. Gen. Shuaibu Ibrahim, th 
assumed duties at the National Directorate, in Abuja, as its 18
DG, new exigencies and his vision for the scheme required that 
the NYSC structure should be adjusted to facilitate the 
realisation of his visions and ideals for the scheme. In his address 
during the handover/takeover ceremony, the DG stated 
succinctly that
My vision will be to sustain effective utilization of the 
potentials of the Corps Members, pursue a 
technologically driven organization, improve on the 
welfare of both Corps Members and the staff, as well 
as their security, strengthened the existing 
collaborations with stakeholders, and rejig the NYSC 63
ventures in line with the NYSC Act.
63 th 
Selected Speeches and Strides of the 18 NYSC Director-General, Brig. Gen. S. Ibrahim, Dss, 
PhD, MTRCN, pp.8-9
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020110
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Indeed, the practical application of these objectives of the 
Director-General of the NYSC began to manifest almost 
immediately given the upward review of the monthly 
allowances of corps members to N33,000.00 (thirty-three 64 
thousand naira). This change was hinged on the fact that the 
previous allowance paid to corps members could no longer 
sustain them in the face of new economic realities in the country, 
especially taking into consideration the fact that corps members 
were encouraged to save part of their allowances to start-up the 
implementation of the skills acquired in the Skills Acquisition 
and Entrepreneurship Development Programme of the NYSC in 
addition to whatever, other assistance they may get from the 
partners of the scheme. The change in terms of increase in the 
allowance of corps members went hand-in-hand with the 
provision of security for corps members to discharge their duties 
in their variously assigned places of primary assignment.
It would be recalled that the spate of insecurity in recent 
times in some parts of Nigeria, especially the case of insurgency 
in the North-East and banditry in the North-West, as well as 
other forms of threat to the lives of Nigerians, made it difficult 
for corps members to serve in certain parts of the country. 
Whereas, the idea of the scheme is to promote unity in diversity 
through the posting of corps members to places other than their 
regions and places of birth, parents and guardians were no 
longer comfortable that their children/wards be posted to parts 
of the country where their safety was not guaranteed. This 
situation was a clog in the wheel of the scheme to attain the 
objective of promoting unity, especially amongst Nigerian 
youths. Thus, providing security for corps members in their th 
places of services by the 18 Director-General, was a new policy 
in the structure of the scheme which restored confidence to 
parents, the management of the NYSC, and the corps members 
themselves, that their safety is assure during national service 
under the NYSC scheme. 
64
Uji Abdullahi Iliyasus, “Brig-General Ibrahim and his reforms in the NYSC”, Blueprint, th th 
July 24 2020, retrieved July 25 2020.
ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE NYSC 111
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Furthermore, in response to a growing digitalised world, the 
scheme was restructured by the current DG, Brigadier-General 
Shuaibu Ibrahim, to be more ICT compliant in order to facilitate 
faster and more efficient service delivery. This change was 
expressed by the DG when he stated that:
It is my pleasure to address you on this occasion of 
the 2018 ICT Desk Officers' training workshop. This 
programme is in furtherance of Management's 
commitment to building staff capacity for enhanced 
performance. I find the programme gratifying 
because it reflects one of the focal areas on my 
agenda for the scheme, which is to pursue a 
65
technologically-driven organisation.
This innovation in the ICT unit of the NYSC was demonstrated 
in the acquisition of operational license for a radio station for the 
NYSC, which will propagate the activities of the scheme and 
provide information that will disabuse the minds of the critics of 
the scheme. In addition, the scrupulous application of improved 
ICT unit in the structure of the NYSC led to the taming of the 
influx of unqualified individuals into the NYSC camps thereby 
66
unnecessarily increasing the overhead cost of the scheme.
Conclusion
The foregoing discussion has revealed that in terms of its 
organisation and structure, the NYSC has never been static. 
While retaining the design of its structure and organisation from 
inception, as time evolved and new exigences emerged, the 
scheme has had to continuously rejig its organisational structure 
as driven by the vision and ideals of the Director-Generals at the 
helm of affairs of the scheme. It is worthy to observe that over the 
65 th 
See Selected Speeches and Strides of the 18 NYSC Director-General, Brig. Gen. S. 
Ibrahim, Dss, PhD, MTRCN, p.10.66 
Uji Abdullahi Iliyasus, “Brig-General Ibrahim and his reforms in the NYSC”, th th 
Blueprint, July 24 2020, retrieved July 25 2020
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020112
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

years, a sense of military discipline has been infused into the the 
activities of the NYSC scheme, especially with regards to its 
administrative and management style. This is because 
successive DGs of the scheme have maintained most of the 
policies of their predecessors, while introducing their own ideas 
based on the current needs of the scheme. Suffice it to say 
therefore that the successes and achievements of the NYSC since 
1973 till now is basically due to decisions in its organisation and 
structure in response to the exigencies of the time.
Bibliography
ABC of Community Development Service, A publication of the 
National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Community 
Development Service and Special Project, June, 2014.
Abubakar S., “The Challenges of Nation Building: Nigeria, 
which way forward?” in Ogbogbo C.B.N. and Okpeh O.O. 
(eds), Interrogating Contemporary Africa: Dike Memorial 
Lectures 1999-2007, Historical Society of Nigeria, 2007.
Asein Samuel O. Call to Service, Twenty Years of the National 
Youth Service Corps Scheme, 1973-1993.
Chukwu D.O., “Cleavages, Conflicts and Nigerian Federalism: 
A Historical Analysis”, in Okpeh O.O. and Ogbogbo 
C.B.N. (eds), Federalism in Historical Perspective , Aboki 
Publishers, Makurdi, 2013.
Col. P.K. Obasa (Rtd) NYSC, A Nations Attempt at Mobilizing 
the Youths.
Folanyan Ojo, Evaluation Report on Four Years of the National 
Youth Service Corps Scheme, National Youth Service 
Coups Directorate Headquarters, Lagos, November 1977.
Ifamose F.O. and Ojo O. E., Main Trends in Nigerian History: From 
1800 To 2000, Oluwatoyin Publishers, Ibadan, 2013.
Minutes of Meeting No.1/1991 of the National Directorate with 
th
Directors and Assistant Directors of NYSC, Held from 14 -
th 
15 March, 1991, at Sheraton Hotel and Towers, Abuja.
NYSC, “Background to the National Youth Service Corps 
ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE NYSC 113
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Scheme”, in NYSC Hand Book Revised in 1995.
NYSC Hand Book Revised in 1995.
National Youth Service Corps NYSC Hand Book Revised in 
1999. 
National Youth Service Corps Yearbook 45th Anniversary 
Commemorative Edition 2018.
National Youth Service Corps, 2016 Annual Report of the NYSC 
Scheme.
th 
Selected Speeches and Strides of the 18 NYSC Director-General, 
Brig. Gen. S. Ibrahim.
The Purpose of Community Development and the Techniques 
for its Implementation, Orientation Lecture Series.
Proceedings of NYSC 1998 Annual Management Conference 
th th 
Held from 24 -27 March, 1998, at the Country Home 
Motel, Benin City, Edo State.
Report of the Committee on the Effective Utilization of Corps 
Members.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020114
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

SECTION TWO: STRUCTURE 
POLICIES AND PROGRAMMES
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Chapter Five
THE ARMY AND THE CHARACTER OF 
NYSC
Bem Japhet Audu
Department of History & War Studies 
Nigerian Defence Academy
Kaduna
Introduction
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) was established in 
1973 by the government of General Yakubu Gowon. The 
historical background of the policy is traceable to the events that 
took place in Nigeria towards the last half of the 1960s. The years 1 
1967-1970 were characterised by the Nigerian civil war. At the 
end of the war, the General Gowon administration came up with 
new policies that would promote post-conflict peace, 
reconciliation, rehabilitation, and reconstruction. Consequently, 
the vital need for national unity led to the birth of the NYSC. The 
NYSC programme was born through Decree Nº 24 of 22nd May 2 
1973. This shows that the NYSC was established with a view to 
bring about national unity and develop communities through 
the youths of Nigeria. A month later, the ruling military 
government came up with the legal framework which outlined 
the objectives of the scheme to include inculcating discipline in 
Nigerian youths by instilling in them a tradition of industry at 
work and of patriotic service to Nigeria in any situation they 
may find themselves; raising the moral tone of the Nigerian 
youths by giving them the opportunity to learn about higher 
ideals of national achievement, social and cultural 
1 
M.R.   Barrick   and   M.K.    Mount,”Effectsofimpressionmanagementandself-
deceptiononthepredictivevalidityofpersonalityconstructs”,JournalofAppliedPsychology,8
1(3),    1996,    p.    262.2
Barrick   and   Mount,”Effectsofimpressionmanagement…
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

improvement; developing in the Nigerian youths the attitudes 
of mind acquired through shared experience and suitable 
training, which will make them more amenable to 
mobilisation in the national interest; enabling Nigerian 
youths to acquire the spirit of self-reliance by encouraging 
them to develop skills for self- employment; contributing to the 
accelerated growth of the national economy; developing 
common ties among the Nigerian youths and promoting 
national unity and integration; removing prejudices, 
eliminating ignorance and confirming at first hand the many 
similarities among Nigerians of all ethnic groups; and 
developing a sense of corporate existence and common destiny 3
of the people of Nigeria.
The objectives of the scheme include developing a sound 
and result- oriented institution that is committed to the 
realisation of national unity and even development. It is an 
organisation that is well motivated and capable of bringing out 
the best qualities in our youth and imparting in them the right 
attitude and value for nation-building, which serves as a catalyst 
to national development and gives the participating graduate 
youths a sense of pride and fulfilment of. The primary objective 
of this chapter is to explain the causes and outcomes of military 
regimentation of the NYSC and the implications of this on the 
general organization of Corps members and their character 
disposition during and after service. The chapter tries to 
establish the relationship between Army regimentation and the 
organization of the NYSC on the one hand, and the impact of this 
on corps members and the operations of the general NYSC on 
the other.
3
Barrick&Mount,”Effectsofimpressionmanagement…
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020118
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Fig. 7: A Nigerian Army Officer inspecting an NYSC Quarter Guard
Drill is the basic foundation of military regimentation and a 
yardstick for measuring the level of discipline of a force that 
sharpens the individual soldier's military career. The primary 
mandate of the Nigerian army is to defend the state from 4 
external aggression and internal insurrection. Soon after 
independence in 1960, the Nigerian army suppressed a 
secessionist bid by the former Eastern region, which declared 
itself the Republic of Biafra in 1967. Since the 1960s, the Nigerian 
army has contributed to several internal security operations, 
helping the police and other civil authorities to restore law and 
public order. It has also contributed substantially to UN 
peacekeeping operations, regional peace operations authorised 
by the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) 5 
and operations mandated by the African Union (AU). Its senior-
4
E. Azinge, E. “Military in internal security operations: challenges and prospects”, Paper 
presented at the Nigerian Bar Association 53rd Annual General Conference, 28th 
August, Tinapa-Calabar, 2013.
THE ARMY AND THE CHARACTER OF NYSC 119
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

level training institutions continue to attract officers from 
foreign militaries. 
Regimentation and drilling in the Nigerian Army is hinged 
on two cardinals which are professionalism and responsiveness. 
Professionalism is about doing things the way they should be 
done based on the ability and skill expected of a professional that 
should be noted for competence. The foundation of military 
professionalism is military discipline. Its attributes include 
organisation, expertise, responsibility, corporate solidarity and 
adherence to professional code of conduct. On the other hand, 
responsiveness is the ability to respond adequately to situations 
by being proactive. Indeed, this is in line with the Nigerian Army 
(NA) regimentation and drilling doctrine. In between these 
pillars are the core values that will drive the officers and soldiers 
to adequately imbibe the culture of professionalism and 6
responsiveness.
Responsiveness is the quality or state of being responsive. It 
is the ability of an officer or soldier to promptly respond, adapt 
and adjust to given instructions within a given time frame. This 
has to do with personal responsibilities, especially as they relate 
to a group which in this case is the NA drilling. Paramount to 
personal responsibility is being responsible for one's own 
actions and well- being. In this scenario, consequences are 
suffered when one fails to do what is right. Being responsive 
refers to our ability to make decisions that serve our own 
interests and the interests of the group. Typical examples of the 
pillars of professionalism and responsiveness are the NODUF 
exercises that the NA has been conducting in different areas in 7 
the country. Professionalism and responsiveness are like joint 
ventures as they are interrelated. In their application, 
consequences must be accepted, and blame and retribution 
given to officers concerned. In like manner, strict, conscious and 
5 nd   
Interview with 2 Lieutenant Ashiru Ahmed, Lagos: Babs Animashaun, 09 October 
2020.6 nd   
Interview with 2 Lieutenant Okechukwe Igwe, Lagos: Babs Animashaun, 09 October 
2020.7
Interview with RSM. Jang Pachok, Lagos: Babs Animashaun, 09 October 2020.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020120
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

consistent adherence should be recognised and rewarded. This 
means that we have to commit ourselves to lead, follow, solve 
problems and display situational awareness at all times. Indeed, 
it involves working hard and even taking risks, which could be 
daunting and also rewarding. Core issues that emanate from 
professionalism and responsiveness include training, 
regimentation, welfare, operational exigencies, logistics, Civil-
Military Cooperation (CIMIC), Inter-Agency Cooperation and 
observance of core values. We shall examine these in some more 8
details.
Drilling is discipline and instruction directed to the 
development and formation of character and acquisition of 
enhanced skills. Drilling, being a cornerstone of military 
professionalism, underscores the importance of a sound, robust 
and standard engagement. The ability to be professionally 
responsive to any operational situation, therefore, depends 
largely on the level and type of training of a nation's military. 
Therefore, military vision envisages that training in all aspects of 
professional duties must be given its rightful place. The NA has 
rich customs, traditions and ethics. These translate to the high 
level of regimentation as witnessed in the NA from its inception 
up to late 1990s. Regimentation as practiced during this period 
was built through a series of activities meant to reflect the 
essential elements of professionalism. These activities include 
drills, parades, mess life, training and recreational activities. 
Resuscitation of regimentation through regular conduct of 
parades and restoration of declining mess life, amongst others, 
are now given serious attention. Commanders at all levels are 
thus to ensure that orientation cadres are conducted for young 
soldiers and officers posted to units in order to enshrine in to 9
them aspects of unit regimentation early.
8
J.S. Blandin and J.H. Morris, “Predicting attrition among non-high school graduate 
Army enlistees”, Armed Forces and Society, Vol. 8(4), 1982, p. 645.9 
P.D. Bliese and R.R. Halverson, Group consensus and psychological well-being: A large 
ûeld study. Journal of Applied Social Psychology, 28(7), 1998, p. 563.
THE ARMY AND THE CHARACTER OF NYSC 121
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Fig. 8: Regimented and Disciplined Corps Members on Parade Ground
Regimentation and drilling play significant roles in the 
transformation of the defence sector in Nigeria. As a matter of 
fact, regimentation can be traced to the creation of the Royal 
British West African Frontier Force (RBWAFF) which evolved 
into the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria at 
independence in 1960. This was obtainable because the new 
personnel needed to be trained in the art of defending the 
10 
territory and the nation's interest with the use of lethal force.
The form of drilling received at this early stage was mainly that 
which would prepare the indigenous armies toward assisting 
the British army during the World Wars. However, from 1960, 
the Nigerian Army's regimentation and drilling changed 
direction, and now involves the learning of tactical and 
rudimentary skills such as first-aid and field hygiene, map-
reading, patrolling, post duties, and so on. This was kick-started 
so as to ensure that military personnel were ready to go on tours 
in areas where they are needed to maintain global peace. 
10 
D. Bohn& E.   Schmitz,Waiverpolicyandattrition,ResearchReport,NRC-96-01.Arlington,   
VA: Navy RecruitingCommand, 1996.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020122
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

It thus became a necessity for the NA to establish regiments 
and advanced military drillings for effectiveness and efficiency 
in the discharge of military duties. It was for this reason that the 
Armed Forces Command and Staff College, Jagi, and the 
Infantry Corps Centre and School (ICCS), the Department of 
Army Training and Operation (DATOPS), Army (CTOP 'A') 
(Nigerian Army, N.d), were established so as to regiment and 
drill the military in line with global best practices. More so, there 
is the Nigerian Defence Academy (NDA), Zaria, created in 1964 
owing to the necessity to teach military personnel in the 
Nigerian Armed Forces; the National War College, Abuja; the 
National Defence College, Abuja; the Training and Doctrine 
Command HQ (TRADOC) located in Minna, Niger State, which 
is responsible for doctrinal command, training and combat 
development of the military; and the Nigerian Military School, 11
Zari.
The National War College prepares both indigenous and 
foreign top military officials and civilians alike through in-depth 
studies of command-cum-policy operations. This is done via a 
number of means, including the organisation of conferences, 
classroom discussions, simulated military campaigns, and other 
on-field drilling activities. The military training institute in 
Nigeria which alone awards its trainees with University-
equivalent degrees is the Nigerian Defence Academy (NDA), 
Zaria. The primary purpose for setting up the Academy is for the 
impartation of military crafts and values, erudition and/or 
scholarship, and expertise in the art of war which every young 
and upcoming officer needs to be well equipped with for the task 12
of national defense.
The Command and Staff College, Jaji, is a defence 
establishment which is geared at enhancing the professional 
prowess of the military officials of the three arms of the Nigerian 
military and civilians in the defence ministry through in-depth 
study of command-cum-staff operations. The College is one 
with an international reputation and recognition. Little wonder, 
11
Bohn and E. Schmitz, Waiverpolicy12
Bohn& E. Schmitz, Waiverpolicy
THE ARMY AND THE CHARACTER OF NYSC 123
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

military personnel from countries within and outside the 
African continent, such as Tanzania and Guyana, have been 
accepted to study at the institution. The duration of the training 
course in the College is ten months. The Armed Forces 
Command and Staff College (AFCSC), Jaji, Kaduna State, is a 
training institute majorly involving the three service arms of the 
Nigerian Armed Forces. When the Staff College was kick-started 
in 1976, only two courses were offered. However, with time and 
following the tripartite configuration of the College where there 
is the land (army), maritime (navy) and aerial (air force) 
departments, three courses were offered by the College, and 
these courses were structured according to the ranking of the 
military. The courses comprise a one-year Senior Course for 
Majors and their equivalents, a twenty- week Junior Course for 
Captains and their equivalent, and a Staff Duties Course for 
Senior Non-Commissioned Officers of the three services.
Also, there is the Infantry Corps Centre and School located in 
Jaji, Kaduna. Military education at the Centre is fundamentally 
reserved for military and paramilitary personnel of the Nigerian 
defence sector. As with most of the other military institutions in 
Nigeria, the training courses of the Infantry Corp Centre and 
School focuses more on the impartation of skills and 
professional experiences on peacekeeping issues. Although its 
structures and curricula were designed majorly to suit the 
teaching of peacekeeping courses, basic military drillings are 
also handled by the school. That is why five other drilling 
facilities at different locations in the country in Bauchi, Kachia, 
13
Kontagara, Lantale, and Nsukka were erected.
13
Bohn&Schmitz,Waiverpolicy…; A. Fawole, “The  Psychological Foundations of  
Nigeria's…
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020124
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Regimentation, Drilling and the NYSC
Fig. 9: Corps Members Training at the Orientation Camp
Basic training is a part of cultural and social learning, covering 
the development of skills, values, and normative judgments 
about things that are appreciated as applicable and rewarding in 14 
the military. Regimentation process and drilling in the NYSC 
takes place during the orientation camp when new corps 
members are taught the value system and the desired and 
customary behaviours (the norms) and perspectives needed for 
participating in the NYSC. According to Ashiru, through this 
process, which is referred to as “learning the ropes”, the corp 
member is able to “cope with psychological, physical, social, and 
moral demands in order to satisfy essential needs and reduce 15 
psychological tension”. Corroborating Ashiru's position, 
Okechukwu presents five phases corps members pass through 
during regimentation and drilling in the NYSC camp. These 
14 
A. Fawole, “The Psychological Foundations of Nigeria's…15
Interview with Briggs Onifade Ibukun, Ex-corper, Bode Thomas, 10 October 2020.
THE ARMY AND THE CHARACTER OF NYSC 125
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

phases include: verification, socialisation, maintenance, re-28 
socialisation, and passing out. According to him, each distinct 
phase involves mutual evaluation of an individual: (1) 
verification of a prospective member, (2) socialization of a new 
members, (3) maintenance of achieved full membership, (4) re-
socialisation of a physically challenged member, and (5) 16
orientation of new members.
The most stressful phases occur while trying to inculcate the 
regimentation norms on every corps member who all carry 
different mindsets and attitudes. In this case, since it is not a full 
military setting, soldiers are restricted from dishing one a certain 
level of drilling and punishment during regimentation. This 
affects the regimentation outcome as not all corps members fully 
incorporate and assimilate the regimentation norms at the end of 17
the orientation camp. Naturally, there are personal differences 
as to how a person prepares for service. Usually, the lines of 
skills and commitment are drawn as examples of how a person's 
abilities and orientation may fluctuate and develop during the 
regimentation process.
In general, a person who is discharged after regimentation 
and drilling in service should demonstrate either a higher or 
inadequate level of skills or commitment. It is expected that 
before entry, the person orients him or herself to service by 
exercising, discussing with friends and family, seeking 
information, making plans, and organising civilian obligations 
prior to service. The encounter with the military (at the entry 
level) initiates the systematic integration of the person into the 
military training with the exception of training in arms. This is 
expected to initiate the socialisation and the adjustment process. 
The acceptance of the person takes place during the basic 
training period which usually lasts throughout the whole 18
advanced training period. Finally, the encounter with the 
16
Interview with Aderibigbe Enilolobo, Ex-corper, Bode Thomas, 10 October 2020.17 
O. Oyeboke, “Essays in Political Economy and Development”, (A dissertation 
presented to The Department of Public Policy in partial fulfilment of the requirements for 
the degree of Doctor of Philosophy in the subject of Public Policy), Harvard University, 
Cambridge, Massachusetts, May 2016.18 
Ibid
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020126
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

military results in the new socialisation process with the youth 
corps member returning to civilian life and facing new 
challenges. In particular, future conscripts would have to 
consider how well they will adjust to being away from their 
family, friends, and current environment; how well they will 
meet the probable physical demands of the military or 
paramilitary service; whether they will feat in socially, and 
whether they will adjust to the expected orders, regimentation, 
and personal deprivations. 
The overwhelming majority of corps members are usually 
not fully prepared for the first few days of basic drilling. Some 
corps members also contemplate the benefits that are gained and 
the experiences that the regimentation and drilling offer. Based 
on these kinds of comparisons, concerns and expectations, most 
corps members gain a certain degree of self-knowledge and 
convictions about their potential military capabilities and 
develop an attitude towards their participation in the camp. In 
addition, the comparison of personal perceptions with the 
experiences of others allows them to arrive at expectations about 
how well they will adjust to the regimentation, including its 
perceived values, norms, and required behaviour. 
Entry into the NYSC camp designates the end of the 
anticipatory stage for corps members and the beginning of the 
encounter stage. At the latter moment, the new environment, 
such as a military unit, begins to introduce corps members to the 
details and demands of military culture, such as the normative 
standards, tasks, roles, and habits of the military social system. 
In the process, the military takes the whole personality, 
attitudes, perspectives, and normative attachments as subject to 
modification and provides an identity transition where a civilian 
is so transformed as to almost adopt a soldier's identity. In 
regimentation and drilling, the perceptions, dispositions, goals, 
motives, behaviour, and social relations of corps members are all 
under the systematic influence of the military culture and 
leaders. Thus, while the person' smilitary, physical, and 
intellectual skills are developed, transformation ofhis entire 
THE ARMY AND THE CHARACTER OF NYSC 127
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

character and emotions are under a planned transformation. In 
this process, some cognitive processes may help corps members 
to adjust to stress and maintain well-being despite stress. For 
example, besides having realistic expectations about the 
regimentation, the ability to find or create meaning in stressful 
events, the sense of being capable of handling the situation, and 
the feeling of personal resilience is important for corps members. 
Although some corps members have enough correct 
information and know what to expect on the first few days in the 
camp, the military is still expected to expose everyone of the 
them to some degree of stress as they go through the initial steps 
of unlearning familiar things and learning how to survive in a 
hierarchical, rule- governed, timetabled, and a physically, 
mentally and socially demanding environment. 
In drilling, the corps member acquires the knowledge and 
skills for social and task-related relationships in the military. 
Specifically, corps members learn the nature of assigned tasks, 
the degree of his or her authority and autonomy, the amount of 
provided support, and the degree of shared information and 
exhibited concern and trust. It is possible that regimentation 
changes the corps members' attitudes and habits, but it is equally 
possible that at least some corps members are ready to join the 
military because of their pre-service orientation. In the NYSC 
system, it is normal that corps members are not fully prepared to 
accept experiences during the first days of regimentation, and 
this in spite of their personal preferences. However, corps 
members have only limited influence on the military practices, 
and are not able to change the situation. Therefore, their pre-
existing personality characteristics and the existence of 
situational stressors and organisational support determine the 
quality of the adjustment process. 
Conversely, the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) is a 
one-year, mandatory programme for Nigerian citizens who 
should be less than 30 years old when they graduate from a 
tertiary institution. The government enforces participation by 
making itillegal for private or public sector employers to employ 
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020128
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

any graduate who does not possess an NYSC completion or 
exemption certificate. With over 200,000 participants annually, it 
has an annual budget of 75 billion naira (about US$400 million) 
making it by far the largest government programme targeted at 
youths. NYSC was established in 1973 after the Nigerian civil 
war that lasted from 1967 to 1970. The civil war was fought along 
ethnic lines, as the majority of Igbo South-Eastern Region 
seceded to form the country of Biafra following severe violence 
against the Igbo in different parts of Nigeria. From its inception, 
an explicit goal of the NYSC was to reconstruct, reconcile and 
rebuild post-war Nigeria. It was designed to address the dual 
objectives of meeting national development needs and 
promoting national integration. The youths mobilised into the 
programme were expected to mitigate the acute shortage and 
uneven distribution of skilled labour across the country. At the 
same time, by enrolling youths from different regions of the 
country to serve together and by exposing them to the modes of 
living in different parts of Nigeria, the scheme sought to remove 
ignorance and prejudice and promote national unity.
Consequently, the focus on tertiary-educated youths is in 
recognition of their potential as national leaders and influencers, 
as well as their ability to provide skilled labour. The introduction 
of the NYSC was met initially with some resistance and public 
protests. However, over time, it became established as a core 
institution in Nigeria. It is now enshrined in the 1999 
Constitution of Nigeria (Section 315) and its influence extends to 
all local governments of the country through the presence of 
corps members. Nevertheless, the NYSC remains a controversial 
topic in Nigeria and there are regular demands for its 
termination in the popular press from critics decrying its large 
costs and limited impact. On the other hand, supporters of the 
scheme claim that it plays a significant role in promoting inter-
group harmony. However, there has been limited empirical 
evidence on the impact of the programme. 
THE ARMY AND THE CHARACTER OF NYSC 129
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The service year is divided into four components, with the 
first component beginning with a three-week regimented 
orientation camp in each state. During this period, corps 
members are required to wear uniforms throughout the camp 
and are not permitted to leave. Orientation exercises such as 
physical training and drills, sports competitions, lectures on 
different social issues, language classes, and social activities, are 
designed to internalise the ideals of the programme, build 
comradeship among corps members and introduce them to their 
host state. At the end of the orientation, corps members receive 
posting letters to a place of primary assignment in a local 
government within the state. They work at this place for the 
remainder of the year, mostly as school teachers, but also as 
workers in hospitals, government offices, private companies 
and non-profit organisations. Corps members receive a monthly 
stipend comparable to the federal minimum wage from the 
government, and often, a supplemental stipend and/or housing 19 
from their employer.
A third  component  of the  programme  is Community 
Development Service (CDS). One day each week, instead of 
working at the place of primary assignment, corps members 
work on community service projects in teams. CDS teams serve 
in a variety of ways such as environmental sanitisation and 
beautification projects, HIV sensitisation, extra-mural classes for 
secondary school students, road safety campaigns, among 
others. Lastly, at the end of the year, upon receipt of a clearance 
letter from participants' primary employers confirming 
satisfactory completion of their duties, NYSC issues a certificate 
of completion to corps members in a passing out ceremony. The 
structure of the NYSC service year results in two layers of inter-
ethnic exposure. First, participants are exposed to a diverse mix 
of other college graduates from different states of the country 
during the orientation camp as well as during the weekly 
community service projects. This exposure is common to all 
participants since they are all in diverse NYSC cohorts. The 
19 th   
National Youth Service Corps Yearbook 45 Anniversary Commemorative Edition 2018.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020130
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

second type of exposure occurs during the day-to-day activities 
of the primary assignment. Corps members interact with 
students, co-workers, clients and other members of the local 
community. 
Challenges to Regimentation in NYSC Camp
In Nigeria, fresh graduates of institutions of higher learning 
(universities and polytechnics) who are below 30 years of age 
have to participate in a one-year programme referred to as the 
National Youth Service Corps (NYSC). At the start of each 
service year, participants are camped and subjected to a three-
week orientation course which features intense physical fitness 
training, among other activities. The regimentation challenges 
revolve around the fitness programme designed for the camp 
subjects during the three weeks orientation period. For some 
corps members, the fitness programme usually leaves some 
adverse effects on their physical health. Sudden intense physical 
training (jogging, drills, calisthenics, contact games, man-o-war) 
cause discomfort and pain in untrained young people. Usually, 
before the orientation camps winds up, corps members get use 
to the physical exercises characteristic of camp life and often look 
forward to it even after the leave the orientation camp.
There is also the challenge of enforcing regimentation in the 
camps. For the camps to function properly, there must be 
military style regimentation underscored by discipline, control, 
obedience and some form of control. Graduates who are usually 
exposed to the liberal ideas deregulated freedom often find it 
difficult to quickly adjust to this forms of regimentation that is an 
intrinsic part of camp life. Since the camps are usually partly 
under the control of military and paramilitary officials, there are 
usually instances of a clash of interests. We must add that these 
cases hardly pose any serious problem since corps members 
eventually adjust to the demands of regimentation in the final 
analysis.Another challenge worth mentioning is the tendency of 
some corps members to fake illness as a condition for exempting 
themselves from camp drills and other energy sapping 
THE ARMY AND THE CHARACTER OF NYSC 131
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

activities. By not participating in these activities, they usually 
stand the risk of being sanctioned by the camp officials who 
monitor keenly the behaviour of corps members. Usually the 
fear of such sanctions, compel compliance from corps members 
in camps and full adherence to camp rules and regulations.
Conclusion
As shown above, the role of the Nigerian Army in the NYSC 
scheme is basically to instil discipline and good leadership 
qualities as well as character building through regimentation 
and drills. Induction into the military culture during the 
orientation camp serves the purpose of reforming corps 
members who are required to revise their old understanding, 
skills, and values towards national integration and 
development, as well as selfless service to the nation. The NYSC 
therefore becomes a platform upon which members are drilled 
into a regimented environment. This is deliberately carried out 
through a sequence of planned learning experiences that include 
paramilitary training, endurance, fatigue, regimentation and 
improved discipline and self-denial. These factors combine to 
inculcate in the corps members some of the features of the army 
character.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020132
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Chapter Six
NYSC AND THE POLICY OF POSTING AND 
PRIMARY ASSIGNMENTS
Patrick I. Ukase
Department of History and International Studies Kogi State 
University, Anyigba
Introduction
It is a fact that Nigeria's political and social landscape before 1973 
was characterised by internal wrangling. This was occasioned 
by the nation's troubled journey since independence, coupled 1 
with the inability of the country to knit the spirit of oneness. The 
reasons for this could be easily traced to the post 1945 political 
formations and intrigues in the country. This was worsened by 
the regional system of government practised prior to 2 
independence. In as much as most of the existing literature were 
concerned with the tussle for power between the major regions 
and ethnic groups in the country, there also existed an 
unprecedented struggle for space among the minorities in the 
emergent state. This presupposes that Nigeria as a nation left the 3 
colonial era with a gulf in between the different regions.
Between 1960 and 1966, the newly independent nation was 
plagued by major political crises such as the Census Crisis, the 
1
. Ejela Emenako, (Ed.) (1986) 12 Years of National Youth Service Corps in Nigeria: 1973-1985, 
National Youth Service Corps Directorate Headquarters, Lagos. p.5. Also see Ukase, P. I. 
“Governance, Separatist Agitations and the Survival of the Nigerian State”, A lead paper 
presented at a Conference Organised by the Department of Political Science, Veritas th 
University, Abuja, held on the 5 March, 2018, p.12 
Ineke Ugbede Joseph (2018) “Building Without Pillars: Nigeria and the Quagmire of Nation 
Building, 1966-1999” Kashere Journal of Humanities, Management and Social Sciences, Vol, 2 No. 1, 
p. 343 
Adesina, O.C (1985), “Prelude to the Nigerian Civil War, 1967-1970”, B.A. Long Essay, 
Department of History, University of Ife, June, 1985. Cited in Adesina, O.C (2015), Nigeria's nd 
Imperfect Federation: The Case Against the Yoruba . The 2 Professor S.O. Arifalo Memorial 
Lecture, Department of History and International Studies, Akungba.4 
Ukase, P.I (2008) “Nigeria's Post-Civil War Reconciliation Efforts and its Implications for the st 
Stability of the Nigerian State in the 21 Century” in M.A. Adejo, (ed) (2020), The Nigerian
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Lagos Vice Chancellorship Crisis, the Action Group (AG) Crisis, 
the General Election Crisis, the Tiv Riot, the Western Election 
Crisis and the 1966 Coup de 'tat. These plethora of crisis along 
with its ethnic and sectional colourations, left a worrisome 
divide among the various groups in the country, which 
culminated into the Nigerian Civil War that lasted from 1967 to 4 
1970.
Although the bond among the various units in the country 
has been questioned by the post 1966 crisis, especially the events 
of January 15th and 29th July 1966 which left the country with a 
scary crack. It was this crack that informs Achebe's position that 
the feeling of togetherness and unity among Nigerians was 
already in shambles even before the actual commencement of 
the Nigerian Civil War of 1967-1970. The nation was in fact, in 
disarray and structurally disintegrated before the outbreak of 5 
the Nigerian Civil War. There is no gainsaying that in spite of the 
'No Victor, No Vanquish' declaration by the General Yakubu 
Gowon's Government, the feeling of animosity amongst 6 
Nigerians continued unabated. Shortly after the war, it was 
discovered that the creation or splitting of the country into 12 
states at the eve of the Nigerian Civil War did little to put the 7 
menace of ethnicism in the country to an end. What followed 
was a new twist in the power tussle among the various ethnic 
groups in the new state against the expectations of the architect 
of the splitting of the country into 12 states. This was as a result of 
the fact that the antecedent of the new states gave rise to a new 
majority versus minority struggle among the groups in the new 8
enclaves.
It was against the backdrop of these undercurrents in the 
post-Civil War Nigeria that the 3Rs (Reconstruction, 
4
Nigeria, pp.292-35 
Chinua Achebe (2012), There Was A Country: A Personal History of Biafra , The Punguin 
Press, New York. Pp. 61-726 
Obasa, P.K. (1995), NYSC: A Nations Attempt at Mobilising the Youths, MDL Consultants 
Marketers, Ilorin. Pp. 9-107 
Folayan Ojo (1977), Evaluation Report on Four Years of the National Youth Service Corps 
Scheme, NYSC Directorate Headquarters, Lagos. p. 48 
Oral interview with Ojonuba Benson on 28-08-2020, a retired teacher and a second 
generation corps member.
Civil War: Forty Years After: What Lessons ? A Publication of the Historical Society of 
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020134
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Rehabilitation and Reconciliation) were instituted by General 
Gowon immediately after war. It should be noted that these 
policies epitomized the principal philosophy of the Nigerian 
Government in the Post-war era. Despite the spirit of the above 
philosophy, the modus operandi to be adopted in igniting the 
spirit of reintegration became problematic due to the massive 
migration of several Nigerians to their ethnic enclaves prior to 
the war and the psychological effects of the war on them, 9 
especially the defunct Biafrans. Suffice to mention that the 
migration that ensued at the eve of the war was not only limited 
to the military personnel and artisans but civil servants and even 
academics. The accompanying effects of this was massive 
propaganda and stereotypes among the various groups in the 
country and this led to shortage of manpower in some parts of 10 
the country. In an attempt to address these fundamental fault- 
lines the idea of the National Youth Service Corps was 11 
conceived, birthed and nurtured.
The establishment of the National Youth Service Corps by 
Decree No. 24 on May 22nd 1973 was greeted with diverse 
reactions. Majority of the reactions were triggered by the 
existing stereotypes in the country as a result of the pre and post-
civil war Nigerian politics and agitations for space by the leading 
ethnic groups. The scheme was however, able to standoff its 
major critics and pursue its principal objectives which revolves 
around the nurturing of a strong sense of belonging and unity 
among the various youths in the country. It is important to 
mention that before the establishment of the scheme, Nigerian 
graduates were labelled as too elitist in nature and character. 
They were seen as youths who had little or no sense of the 
realities in the rural settings in most parts of the countryside. 
According to Ojih John, despite the fact that majority of the 
graduates in the country were drawn from the rural areas prior 
9
. Oral interview with Michael Ugboja, a retired army officer in Egume on 15 July, 
2020, age 70+10
. NYSC Hand Book, Revised in 1995. p.611
. Folayan Ojo. (1977), Evaluation Report on Four Years of the National Youth Service Corps 
Scheme, NYSC Directorate Headquarters, Lagos. p. 4
NYSC AND THE POLICY OF POSTING AND PRIMARY ASSIGNMENTS 135
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

to the establishment of the scheme, most of them found it 12 
difficult to return to the rural area upon their graduation. He 
opined that this could be as a result of the training and treatment 
they received during their education, and the fact that the 
country was faced with acute shortage of manpower in urban 
centres. This shortcoming inherent in the Nigerian educational 
system was highlighted in the NYSC Hand Book in 1995. The 
Scheme's Handbook advanced that the: 
Universities and other institutions of higher learning 
are expected to be the training ground for future 
leaders, except that, these institutions are first and 
foremost committed to the advancement of learning 
and knowledge, training of people for good 
citizenship. Hence, the products of these institutions 
have been accused of being too elitist in their outlook, 
of not identifying with the plight of common man, 
and of inability to appropriate predicament of the 
vast majority of our people who live in the rural 
areas. Hence, was the need to look beyond the 
immediate present and to think of the future 
leadership of the country that necessitated the 
mobilization of certain categories of our youths 13
through the National Youth Service Corps scheme.'
Aside the integrative objective of the scheme, its mission and 
vision was further given the necessary impetus by the structural 
imbalance in the distribution of high level skill personnel in the 
country. According to the National Manpower Board, as early as 
the 1960s, about 40% of the country's 57,000 high-level 14 
manpower (excluding teachers) were employed in Lagos.
Similarly, about 70% of the nation's medical and para-medical 
12
. Oral interview with Ojih John on 4-09-2020, a retired teacher and a second generation 
corps member held at Idah-Kogi State.13
. NYSC Hand Book, Revised in 1995. P.714
. See the National Manpower Board, (1964), High-Level Manpower 1963-70, Manpower 
Studies No. 2, cited in Folayan Ojo. (1977), Evaluation Report on Four Years of the National 
Youth Service Corps Scheme, NYSC Directorate Headquarters, Lagos. p.4
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020136
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

personnel were employed in few urban areas especially 
university areas and state capitals. The limited number of 
graduates in the country during the first two decades of its 
independence and the expanding status of some cities such as 
Lagos, Kaduna, Kano, Ibadan, to mention a few were 
responsible for the concentration of graduates in the urban 
centres resulting to an uneven distribution of manpower in 
many parts of the country. This situation was further 
complicated by the stereotype about the rural areas as 
uninhabitable places for civilized people among many educated 15 
Nigerians. These attitudes and stereotypes has continue to 
trouble the country. At the dawn of the 1970, it became evident 
that the quagmire of ethnic dislike, uneven distribution of 
manpower across the country and the existing stereotypes about 
the rural communities will go un- remedied in the absence of a 16 
strong approach by the government. It was against this 
background that the NYSC scheme was put in place to pursue 17 
one of the 3Rs - the policy of Reintegration.
The scheme, unlike the Government's policy of 
reintegration, came on board with a workable guideline on how 
skilled manpower could be distributed across the country and 
how Nigerian youths could as well be redistributed to areas 
where they have little or no knowledge about the country. All 
these were to be implemented and achieved through the 
scheme's posting policy. Unlike other national service schemes 
in other parts of the globe that predated the NYSC in Nigeria like 
the American Peace Corps, the British Voluntary Service 18 
Overseas, the Young Pioneers of Malawi, the Work Camps of 
Mali, the Youth Corps of Guyana, the National Youth Service of 19 
Kenya; the scheme in Nigeria was structured to ignite the spirit 
15
. Oral interview with Etugho Emmanuel on 4-09-2020, a retired teacher and a second 
generation corps member.16
. NYSC Hand Book, Revised in 1995. p.617
. Samuel O, Asein, (1993), Call to Service: Twenty Years of the National Youth Service Corps Scheme: 
1973-993. Sam Bookman, Ibadan. p.1618 
Samuel O, Asein, (1993), Call to Service: Twenty Years of the National Youth Service Corps Scheme: 
1973-993. Sam Bookman, Ibadan. p.1619
. Chioma Onwere, (1992), “National Youth Service Corps Programme and National 
Integration in Nigeria”. Thesis. PhD. Department of International and Comparative 
Education, Institute of Education, University of London. p.103
NYSC AND THE POLICY OF POSTING AND PRIMARY ASSIGNMENTS 137
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

of brotherhood among the youths in Nigeria, irrespective of 
ethnic and religious background following the chronic ethnic 
intolerance, political polarization and the ruthless power 
struggle occasioned by colonial rule in the country, and the first 20
two decades of the country's postcolonial history.
The youths became the target of the scheme due to their roles 
in the struggle for the country's independence and obviously 
because they could be veritable instruments for national 21 
integration. The restriction of most Nigerians, especially the 
youths to their geographical and ethnic enclave prior to the 
establishment of the NYSC scheme was brought to the fore by 
Ejela Emenako in a study on the scheme in 1986. The study 
revealed that 62 per cent of the corps members had not visited 
their places of deployment and primary assignment before their 22 
service year. This posed untoward consequences for the unity, 
stability and development of the country, since it was obvious 
the youths did not know their own country well.
NYSC Posting (Deployment) Policy
The NYSC Posting Policy is one of the major integrative tools of 
the scheme which has over the years made it possible for the 23 
distribution of Nigerian youths across the country. There is no 
gainsaying that the posting policy of the scheme is nothing less 24
than the engine room of the scheme. . Oral interview with 
Omachonu Samuel an ex-corps member in Delta state. 
20
. NYSC Hand Book, Revised in 1995. p. 6. Also see Chioma Onwere, (1992), “National 
Youth Service Corps Programme and National Integration in Nigeria”. Thesis. PhD. 
Department of International and Comparative Education, Institute of Education, 
University of London. p.1621
. Samuel O, Asein, (1993), Call to Service: Twenty Years of the National Youth Service Corps 
Scheme: 1973-993. Sam Bookman, Ibadan. p.1622
. Ejela Emenako (Ed.), (1986), 12 Years of  National Youth Service Corps in Nigeria: 1973-
1985,
National Youth Service Corps Directorate Headquarters, Lagos. P.4423
. National Youth Service Corps Act, CAP N84 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004. 11, also 
see Annual Volume of the Laws of the Federal Republic of Nigeria Containing Decrees and 
Subsidiary Legislation Made in the Year 1973 . (1974), Federal Ministry of Information, 
Printing Division, Lagos. A 50524
. Oral interview with Omachonu Samuel an ex-corps member in Delta state.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020138
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

This is premised on the fact that, it is this policy that drives 
and enables the implementation of the scheme's the principal 
aim of the scheme which is centred on the propagation, 
development and encouragement of ties among Nigerian 25 
youths and the promotion of national unity, and the entire 
objectives of the scheme. According to the National Youth 
Service Corps Decree 1973, the objectives of the scheme inter alia 
includes:
i. To inculcate discipline in Nigerian youths by instilling in 
them a tradition of industry at work, and of patriotic and 
loyal service to the nation in any situation they may find 
themselves;
ii. To raise their moral sense by giving them the opportunity 
to learn about higher ideals of national achievement and 
social and cultural improvement;
iii. To develop in them attitudes of mind, acquired through 
shared experience and suitable training, which will make 
them more amenable to mobilisation in the national 
interests;
iv. To develop common ties among them and promote 
national unity by ensuring that:
v. As far as possible youths are assigned to jobs in states other 
than their states of origin;
vi. Each group, assigned to work together, is as representative 
of the country as possible;
vii. The youths are exposed to the modes of
viii. living of people in different parts of the country with a 
view to removing prejudices, eliminating ignorance, and 
confirming at first hand the many similarities among 
Nigerians of all ethnic groups;
ix. To encourage members of the service corps to seek, at the 
end of their corps service, career employment all over the 
country thus promoting the free movement of labour;
25
. Annual Volume of the Laws of the Federal Republic of Nigeria Containing Decrees and 
Subsidiary Legislation Made in the Year 1973 . (1974), Federal Ministry of Information, 
Printing Division, Lagos. A 505
NYSC AND THE POLICY OF POSTING AND PRIMARY ASSIGNMENTS 139
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

x. To induce employers partly through their experience with 
members of the service corps, to employ more readily 
qualified Nigerians irrespective of their States of origin; 
and
xi. To enable Nigerian youths to acquire the spirit of self- 26
reliance.
In addition, the objective of the scheme was further 
elaborated by Decree No.51 of 16th June 1993, where it was 
mandated to instil in corps members, the zeal to contribute to the 
accelerated growth of the national economy; and to develop a 
sense of corporate existence and common destiny of the people 27 
of Nigeria. The 1993 Decree added that corps members are to be 
encouraged to eschew religious intolerance by accommodating 
religious differences. 
According to the NYSC Decree of 1973, Nigerian youths 
upon their graduation are to serve in the service corps for a 
period of one year as from the date specified in their call-up 
letters and are to make themselves available for service and shall 
present themselves at their posting places or authority as may be 28 
specified in their posting letter. The Decree specifies that corps 
members are to be deployed to hospitals, road construction, 
farming, water schemes, surveying and mapping, social and 
economic services, teaching, food storage and eradication of 
pest. Other areas include rehabilitation of destitute, 
development of sports, all government departments and 
statutory corporations suitable for new graduates, development 
projects of local councils, the private sector of the Nigerian 
economy and such other undertakings and projects of the 
Federal Military Government. The decree further stipulates that 
before placing corps members in any of the undertakings or 
projects approved by the scheme, the Directorate is to take into 
26 
Annual Volume of the Laws of the Federal Republic of Nigeria Containing Decrees and Subsidiary 
Legislation Made in the Year 1973 . (1974), Federal Ministry of Information, Printing Division, 
Lagos. A 50627 
NYSC Hand Book, Revised in 1995. P.828 
Annual Volume of the Laws of the Federal Republic of Nigeria Containing Decrees and Subsidiary 
Legislation Made in the Year 1973 . (1974), Federal Ministry of Information, Printing Division, 
Lagos. A 506
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020140
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

cognizance the qualification of each member and existing 
vacancies, and the directorate shall not be compelled to deploy a 29 
member only to a particular undertaking or project. In addition, 
Okafor Chukwumeka and Ani Johnmary K. in a study outlined 
other factors that guide the scheme's posting or deployment 30 
policy. To them, the basic criteria for the deployment of corps 
members are:
a. The equality of states;
b. The ability of states to absorb the services of the corps 
members;
c. Posting on concessional ground;
d. Posting on demand from various Federal Government 
establishments;
e. Posting of in-service trainees;
f. The supportive role of a government is also increasingly 
become a factor in the placement of corps members;
g. Deployment if affected by the academic and discipline of 
participant; and
h. The deployment of corps members has retained its 
traditional hue-with the majority of corps members going to 31 
the classrooms.
It is, however, in pursuance of the objectives of the 
programme that the posting policy of the scheme is structured in 
order to avoid postings that would result in wastage of human 
resources, and that corps members are as much as possible 
posted to areas relevant to their disciplines; although sometimes 32 
national need may override this consideration. It is thus 
29
. Annual Volume of the Laws of the Federal Republic of Nigeria Containing Decrees and 
Subsidiary Legislation Made in the Year 1973 . (1974), Federal Ministry of Information, 
Printing Division, Lagos. A 50930
. Okafor Chukwuemeka and Ani Johnmary K. (2014), (The National Youth Service 
Corps Programme and Growing Security Threat in Nigeria), Africa's Public Service 
Delivery & Performance Review, Vol. 2, No. 2, 2014. p. 15131
. Okafor Chukwuemeka and Ani Johnmary K. (2014), (The National Youth Service 
Corps Programme and Growing Security Threats in Nigeria), Africa's Public Service 
Delivery & Performance Review, Vol. 2, No. 2, 2014. P. 15132
. NYSC Hand Book, Revised in 1995. p. 17
NYSC AND THE POLICY OF POSTING AND PRIMARY ASSIGNMENTS 141
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

cardinal that corps members are posted to areas that are 
different from their states of origin in an attempt to achieve 
national unity through the mobilisation of the Youths of Nigeria, 
by exposing them to life in other parts of the country and to learn 
at first hand the many similarities and diversities of culture and 
traditions of the various ethnic groups in the country, with the 
view of eliminating any inherent prejudices. In this connection, 
corps members are to have no choice of where they would be 33
posted to serve.
The scheme reserves the right to grant corps members 
Concessional Posting. This is an exception to the posting policy 
of the scheme granted based on health, marriage and extreme 3434
but compassionate reasons. . National Youth Service Corps 
(NYSC) Hand Book (Revised), (1999). p.13 
The scheme in an attempt to avoid abuse of the privilege of 
preferential posting, tight procedures for screening those 
entitled to such posting were put in place. For instance, in order 
to enjoy the privileges of concessional posting, prospective corps 
members with medical issues are to submit medical reports from 
the institution's Medical Centre or University Teaching 
Hospital, General Hospitals, Military or Mission Hospitals and 
such a report must be signed by the Chief Medical or Health 35 
Officer. In addition, corps members seeking to redeploy from 
their state of service are to address their application to the 
Director-General through the State Coordinator of the State of 
Service, attaching necessary documentary evidence to support 36 
the request. For example, a married corps member, Mnena 
Faasema, was originally posted and mobilized to serve in Ondo 
State. According to her, during her two-week orientation 
activities, she applied for redeployment to Benue State, where 
she originally resides with her husband, and her requested was 
33
. NYSC Hand Book, Revised in 1995. P.25; also, it should be noted that the scheme in an 
attempt to give every Nigerian graduate the opportunity to partake in the scheme, 
incorporated Nigerian foreign graduates into the scheme in 1977.34
. National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Hand Book (Revised), (1999). p.1335
. National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Hand Book (Revised), (1999). p.1436
. National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Hand Book (Revised), (1999). p.16
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020142
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

granted, This was after she attached her marriage certificates, 
evidence of change of name in a national daily and other 37 
accompanying documents. This was similar to the case of Uyo 
Joy Etila redeployed from Enugu state to Delta state due to her 38 
pregnancy and marital status. Other Youth Corps members 
interviewed also confirmed that the same approach was used in 
their orientation camps to seek redeployment to their home 39 
States to enable them re-unite with their husbands. Several 
others were redeployed on health grounds. For example, Cecilia 
Nwachuku, who was originally deployed to Kaduna state in 
2019 was redeployed to Enugu state on concessional ground, 
after meeting the necessary requirements due to her health 40 
complications. It was, however, discovered that Cecilia was not 
initially disposed to applying for a redeployment but was 
encouraged by the medical team at the orientation camp to apply 
for redeployment and stay closer to her Doctor due to her 
incessant illness during the stipulated 21 days camping in 
Kaduna state. 
By the dawn of the 1980s and 1990, the Scheme through its 
posting policy had proved its pre-eminent status as a binding 41 
factor of national integration and growth. By this time (the 
1990), it had come a long way and in no small measure proved all 
those hitherto in doubt that it has the capacity to promote 
national unity and integration. This is premised on the fact that 
the scheme through its posting policy has grown and become the 
most enduring and goal oriented institution since the end of the 42 
Nigerian Civil War. This is because as the years went by, the 
relationship between youth corps members and their hosts 
37
. Oral interview with Patience Mnena in Benue State on 14-09-2020, age 2838
. Oral interview with Uyo Joy Etila an ex-corps member in Delta state on 13-09-202039
. Oral interview with the following ex-corps members: Ufedo Akowe, Amuche 
Ezedinma Amina Ibrahim, Grace Edime, Isah Jennifer, Loveth Kanu, Achor Monica, 
Faith Ayodele and Ojoma Egwuche.40
. Oral interview with Cecilia Nwachuku, an ex-corps member in Kaduna State. Cecilia 
was interviewed via skype on 18-09-202041
. Samuel O, Asein, (1993), Call to Service: Twenty Years of the National Youth Service Corps 
Scheme: 1973-993. Sam Bookman, Ibadan. p.542
. Samuel O, Asein, (1993), Call to Service: Twenty Years of the National Youth Service Corps 
Scheme: 1973-993. Sam Bookman, Ibadan. p.15
NYSC AND THE POLICY OF POSTING AND PRIMARY ASSIGNMENTS 143
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

states and communities began to improve with greater 
enlightenment and understanding of the purpose of the scheme. 
This triggered a steady normalization of relationships due to the 
efforts of the various Head of States, directors of the schemes as 
well as media men. The effect of the scheme was felt much more 43
in the rural areas and among the illiterate communities.
Towards the eve of the 1990, for instance, majority of rural 
dwellers in the country began to witness several social benefits 
associated with the scheme, and hence, began to see the scheme 44 
as a blessing rather than a curse. From the interviews conducted 
across the country, there is a high degree of consistency in the 
responses of the interviewees that the orientation of many 
parents and people in areas such as Yola, Gboko, Zaria, Kano, 
Obubra, Sokoto, Maiduguri, Ogbomosho and Anyigba that the 
presence of corps members has over the years transformed their 45 
communities. According to Achem Itodo, the above was 
principally influenced by the safe return of ex-corps members to 
their parents in the urban centres contrary to the initial fear that 46 
some harm may befall them. He further revealed that this was 
responsible for the reciprocal attitude to other parents in urban 
centres who began to provide free accommodation for corps 
members in their respective family houses around Ibadan, 
Akure, Lagos, just to mention but a few places. 
It is very important to mention that by 1990, the feeling of 
insecurity on the part of corps members in their host 
communities or states of mobilization had virtually 
43 
Samuel O, Asein, (1993), Call to Service: Twenty Years of the National Youth Service Corps 
Scheme: 1973-993. Sam Bookman, Ibadan. P. 8244 
Oral interview with Ichaba Emmanual, a second generation corps member and a lecturer 
at in the Department of History and International Studies, Kogi State University, Anyigba, 
he was interviewed on 01-09-202045 
The view was expressed by the following through selected oral interview: Ochuma 
Adegbe, aged 85, a community leader in Anyigba; Pedro Johnson, aged 67 a retired civil 
servant in Obubra (Cross River); Shettima Audu, aged 60+, a retired Civil Servant in Sokoto 
State, Yemi Olaniyi aged 50+ in Oyo town, Hassan Jibo aged 60+ in Kaduna and Shehu Bala 
in Kano. They were all interviewed in July 202046 
Oral interview with Achem Itodo a retired teacher in Oyo State, age 78
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020144
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

disappeared. Consequently, there were only few isolated cases 
47 
as seen in the limited number of the request for redeployment.
The above was further elaborated by Elder Sunday Alikali, who 
opined that his deployment to Calabar as a corps members was 
critical in sidestepping his suspicion and stereotypes about the 
people in the area. He further revealed that he was deeply 
integrated into the Calabar community to the extent that he got 
48 
married to an Efik lady at the tail end of his service year.
Similarly, with the virtue of the workings of the NYSC 
posting and policy of primary assignment, it became mandatory 
for virtually all corps members to experience life in rural 
settings. This posting policy exposed corps members to the 
challenges of rural settings and their state of deployment. 
Through the posting policy, corps members in the rural 
communities usually get involved in activities, which on the 
long run, engineer socio-cultural and economic reliability and 
transformation. It is, therefore, critical to mention that the 
Scheme's posting policy has largely be able to breed a high 
degree of religious tolerance among corps members, who have 
overtime found themselves in communities with different 
49 
religious beliefs. In Kogi state for instance, a Christian corps 
member has in the time past, demonstrated the above by 
providing resources to his host (Muslim) community. The case 
of Alexander Etini Gideon in Koto Karfe will suffice at this point. 
According to His Royal Highness Abdulrazak Isakoto, the Emir 
of Koto Karfi, Alexander Etini, a Christian corps member in the 
area built a conducive restroom for the Central Mosque in the 
community to the amazement of the Muslim community in the 
50 
area despite the fact that he was a Christian. The Emir averred 
47 
Samuel O, Asein, (1993), Call to Service: Twenty Years of the National Youth Service Corps 
Scheme: 1973-993. Sam Bookman, Ibadan. p. 8448
. Elder Sunday Alikali is a second generation corps member who served in Calabar in 
1983. He was interviewed in Ajekalaga in Kogi State in August, 2020. Elder Sunday 
Alikali is the current principal of the Ajekalaga community secondary School.49
. NYSC Half Hour on NTA, 29-09-202050
. NYSC Half Hour on NTA, 29-09-2020
NYSC AND THE POLICY OF POSTING AND PRIMARY ASSIGNMENTS 145
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

that Alexander's contribution to the mosque in spite of the fact 
that he is Christian showed that he was really integrated into the 
community and was determined to contribute meaningfully to 
the growth of Islam in the area. The contribution of Alexander to 
the community did not go unrewarded. In appreciation for his 
selfless service and religious tolerance, he was turbaned by the 
th 
Emir and hence, he became the 4 person to be turbaned inside 
51
the palace in Koto Karfe.
Similarly, the current Chaplain of the Chapel of Restoration, 
Kogi State University Anyigba, Evangelist Tokumbo Salami was 
posted to Igalaland as a corps member in the early 1990s and 
since the expiration of his service year, he decided to stay back in 
52 
the area and evangelize. There is a consensus that the early 
history of the protestant movement and evangelism in Igalaland 
and particularly around Anyigba axis will not be complete 
without a mention of his name. This implies that since the early 
1990s, Evangelist Salami has contributed to the growth of 
Christianity in the area, and rose to the position of the Chaplain 
in the University's Chapel of Restoration, due to the integrative 
mechanism and effectiveness of the NYSC's posting policy over 
53 
the years. Within the social sphere, the posting policy of the 
scheme has affected the movement of people other than the 
corps member, especially their relatives out of their immediate 
environment on visitations. This has broadened the knowledge 
of not just the corps members but their family members about 
other people's environment, culture, and religion in Nigeria. 
This has gone a long way in promoting national unity and 
integration – the main purpose for which the scheme was 
established. 
51
. NYSC Half Hour on NTA, 29-09-2020
52
. Oral interview with Joel Abah, a lecturer in the Department of History 
and International Studies, Kogi State University, Anyigba on 19-09-2020
53 th 
. Oral interview with Elder Engr Daniel Okolo Ineke on 30 July, 2020 at 
Egume, Kogi State. Elder Daniel is more than 80years old.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020146
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC Policy of Primary Assignments
The deployment of corps members to their various Places of 
Primary Assignments (PPA) is the second aspect or arm of the 
scheme's posting policy. This policy enables the scheme to send 
corps members to various government and private offices 
within the state of deployment within the service year. It is, 
however, through this posting that corps members get to meet 
and interact with natives of various communities and other 
54 
Nigerians in their respective states of service. According to the 
NYSC Year Book, the posting of corps members to their PPA 
gives them the opportunity to contribute their own quota to the 
national development process in four critical sectors of the 
55 
economy - education, health, infrastructure and agriculture.
This implies that the between 1973 and 2012, the scheme's policy 
on PPA was limited to the posting of corps members to the 
aforementioned sectors. This policy is principally guided by two 
basic considerations. These are posting to areas of need; and 
56 
posting with relevance to corps members field of capacity. In 
the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), for instance, corps members 
are posted to the various offices and units: hospitals, road 
construction sites, farms, water schemes, surveying and 
mapping, social and economic services, teaching, food storage 
and eradication of pest, rehabilitation of destitute and disabled, 
development of sport and the private sector for their primary 
57
assignment.
The primary assignments of the scheme is reinforced by its 
Community Development Programme and activities, which has 
helped a lot in the promotion of learning, tourism, health care 
and agricultural development. Ebenezar Obadare puts it more 
succinctly: 
54
. Oral interview with Udeh Erim, aged 70+, a third generation corps member from Delta 
state.55
. National Youth Service Corps Year Book: 45 Anniversary. (2018), p.1756 
. Report of the Committee on the Effective Utilization of Corps Members, (1984), p.857
. Corps Mobilisation Department. Retrieved from https:www.nysc.gov.ng/ rd 
mob.html#, accessed on 23 July, 2020
NYSC AND THE POLICY OF POSTING AND PRIMARY ASSIGNMENTS 147
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC has facilitated the regular and effective 
distribution of skilled manpower, steady breaking of 
social and cultural barriers as well as the building of 
friendly bridges across ethno-linguistic boundaries. 
It has promoted the values of national unity and 
development, rekindled interest in neglected but 
vital areas of national development like agriculture 
58
and promoted leadership qualities in the youths.
For instance, the posting policy of the scheme has over the years 
assisted many states in the country with deficient manpower in 
59 
filling the void. According to Ejela Emenako, both the urban 
and rural areas in Nigeria have benefited considerably from the 
contributions of corps members at their places of primary 
60 
assignment. From the manpower perspective for instance, the 
scheme before the early 2000 became more and more 
indispensable to states as a constant source of quality manpower 
for both government and private establishments, especially in 
61 
schools. For instance, the effect of the posting policy on 
government offices and schools has been critical to the 
functioning of most of the schools especially in the northern part 
of the country. One of the corps members in the 2010 Batch C 
Service 'year submits that majority of the public and private 
schools in the northern part of the country depend on the 
62 
constant manpower supplied by the scheme to the area.
58
. See Ebenazar Obadare, Statism, Youth and Civic Imagination: A Critical Study of the 
National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Scheme, Centre for Social Development (CSD) 
Report, 2005, p,2159
. Oral interview with Atim Uteno, a retired staff of the NYSC Office in Kaduna State, 
aged 70+.60
. Ejela Emenako (Ed.), (1986), 12 Years of National Youth Service Corps in Nigeria: 1973- 
1985, National Youth Service Corps Directorate Headquarters, Lagos. p. 8261
. Ejela Emenako (Ed.), (1986), 12 Years of National Youth Service Corps in Nigeria: 1973- 
1985, National Youth Service Corps Directorate Headquarters, Lagos, p. 82
62
. Oral interview with Ocheme Mark Ugbede, age 35 in Abuja on 02 September, 2020.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020148
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The above statement was corroborated by Ademola 
Adesina, who averred that unlike other parts of Nigeria, 
northern Nigeria seems to be the only part of the country where 
corps members are mostly engaged in the primary school to 63 
teach pupils. This trend is a testimony to the fact the northern 
part of the country is yet to remedy its manpower deficits, which 64 
predates the dawn of the year 2000. In 1981 about 33 per cent of 
the corps members that served in Kano were offered permanent 65
employment upon the completion of their service.
This feat was also recorded in Oyo, Plateau and Lagos states. 
In the old Bendel state, for instance, many of the rural health 
schemes depended on the youth corps medical doctors and their 
teams for successful operation. In a study carried out by Colonel 
Obasa, it was discovered that more than seventeen mobile clinics 
in the rural communities in the state were manned exclusively in 66
1982/83 by the scheme's medical team.
In Central Nigeria, the case is not quite different, between 
2008 and 2015 for instance, it was reported that most private 
secondary schools in Kogi State were heavily dependent on the 
services on corps members for the smooth running of the 
67 
school. Omattah Paul as staff of SS Peters and Paul Academy, 
Egume in Kogi state submitted that at a time, the school used to 
68 
have not less than 6 corps members. He further stated that the 
school developed the habit of requesting the NYSC office to 
63
. Oral interview with Ademola Adesina, a former corps member in Kaduna on 02 
September, 202064
. The shortage of manpower in the northern part of the country specifically in Borno state 
was made evident in the Maiduguri Declaration in 1981. The Governor of the State, through 
the Declaration called on all the eight hundred corps members serving in the state to review 
their engagement with a note that they would be offered a permanent and pensionable 
employment after their service year. In spite of the Maiduguri Declaration, many of the 
corps members ignored the declaration and went back to their various state of origin. See 
Col. P.K. Obasa. NYSC: A Nations Attempt at Mobilising the Youths, 9265
. Obasa, P.K. (1995), NYSC: A Nations Attempt at Mobilising the Youths, MDL Consultants
Marketers, Ilorin. p. 7166
. Obasa, P.K. (1995), NYSC: A Nations Attempt at Mobilising the Youths, MDL Consultants 
Marketers, Ilorin. Pp. 72-7367
. Oral interview with Paul Omattah, a teacher at SS Peter and Paul Academy, Egume on 02- 
09-202068
. Oral interview with Paul Omattah, a teacher at SS Peter and Paul Academy, Egume on 02-
09-2020
NYSC AND THE POLICY OF POSTING AND PRIMARY ASSIGNMENTS 149
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

deploy corps members that could teach subjects like 
Mathematics, English Language, Physics and Chemistry. In 
order to lure corps members, the school built a conducive 
corper's lodge for its corps members. Jonathan Ijaja for instance, 
revealed that aside the bona fide corps members that are often 
posted to the school, it also engages the services of other corps 
members posted to the Government and Community secondary 
69 
schools in the area. This implies that the school could at times, 
have more than 9 corps members. These experiences were 
reported to be similar in several private secondary schools in 
central Nigeria.
In 2013, the NYSC had introduced another critical duty to 
Corps members while serving in their places of primary 
assignment and this had to do with election duty. The 
involvement of corps members in the electoral process has 
remained one of the most novel approach at improving the 
country's democratic process. To concretise this arrangement, 
the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) signed 
a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the NYSC in 
which the former agreed to use corps members for election duty. 
According to INEC, this MoU was sequel to the success achieved 
following the use of corps members in the conduct of bye-
elections, re-run elections supplementary elections, and the 2011 
general elections. In that MoU, the INEC resolved to forthwith 
engage corps members in election duty. Election duty herein 
include registration of voters, conduct of election and 
70 
referendum. Since then, corps members have played critical 
roles in the success of several electoral activities in the country. 
In fact, the success of the 2011 and particularly the 2015 elections 
were attributed to the patriotism and nationalism of corps 
members, who manned virtually all the polling booths in the 
country either as presiding officers or returning officers. 
69
. Oral interview with Jonathan Ijaja, a teacher at SS Peter and Paul Academy, Egume 
on 02-09-202070 
. See Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the NYSC and The INEC th 
signed on the 24 September, 2013.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020150
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Contrary to the early records and success of the scheme, the 
elements of religious unrest in the northern part of the country in 
the early 1980s as witnessed during the Maitatsine crisis created 
several divides in the minds of many of the serving and 71 
prospective corps members during the period. This 
information was corroborated by Jerome Andohol, who stressed 
that the religious unrest in the north was the principal factor that 
influenced the refusal of many of the corps members to accept 
the automatic employment offer of the Borno and Sokoto states 
governments after the successful completion of their service 72 
year. It should be noted that in 1983, for instance, the Sokoto 
State government offered 250 ex-corps members' permanent 
jobs, which only five accepted. This was attributed to the 
elements of distrust uncertainty and fear among majority of the 
corps members and the fact that most of the jobs were in the 73 
classroom.
Since this period down to 1999, the NYSC posting policy has 
been subjected to different abuses to the extent that there has 
been a growing opinion among Nigerians that the scheme has 
outlived its relevance and should therefore be scrapped.
Changes and Continuities in the Policy of Posting and Primary 
Assignments
Since the latter part of the 1990, especially between 1995 and 
2010, the political and religious tempo of the country was really 
charged and tensed. This period experienced diverse political 
violence and ethno-religious crisis, among which were the June 
12 election controversy, the hanging of the Ogoni Nine, the rise 
in the advocacy for sharia, and the emergence of ethnic militia 
and terrorist groups across the country. The antecedents of these 
menaces gradually affected the willingness of most Nigerian 
71
. Oral interview with Bello Ojonuba, a former corps member in Borno State in 1981, 
age 50+72 
. Oral interview with Jerome Andohol, a former corps member in Sokoto State in 
1996, age 50+73
. Obasa, P.K. (1995), NYSC: A Nations Attempt at Mobilising the Youths, MDL 
Consultants Marketers, Ilorin. p. 96
NYSC AND THE POLICY OF POSTING AND PRIMARY ASSIGNMENTS 151
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

youths to oblige and adhere to the spirit of the NYSC. There is no 
gainsaying that the rate of ethnic, political and religious 
intolerance in the country was akin to the boiling ethnic dislike 
and tussle for space witnessed within the first decade of self-rule 
in Nigeria. This sudden reverse to the old tradition has had a 
very serious implication on the objective and implementation of 
the goals of the NYSC Scheme. One of such implications has 
been the constant neglect of some states in the country by corps 74 
members due to one security reason or the other. This has been 
attributed to the sense of insecurity that swept through the 
country in the early 2000. 
For instance, between 2002 and 2006, there were intelligent 
reports that Boko Haram had its members trained outside the 
shores of Nigeria with a view to terrorizing the entire nation. 
Within the same period, the Odua People's Congress (OPC) 
youth wing had become hostile to Hausa communities in some 
of the Yoruba states; in the east, there were re-emerging calls for 
the establishment of the State of Biafra, while in the Niger Delta, 
the militants had already created an uneasy atmosphere. 
Historically, it should be recalled that the ill-feelings toward 
moving to other parts of the country to work or serve under the 
National Youth Service Corps scheme started with the outbreak 
of the Maitatsine crisis in northern Nigeria. The refusal of 
majority of the ex-corps members to accept the offer of automatic 
pensionable employment in Borno and Sokoto states in the early 
1980s should not be taken as a coincidence but a resurgence of 
ethnic cum religious distrust. According to Ishaq Abdullahi, the 
driving interest of the NYSC scheme was greatly affected by the 75 
psychological effect of the crisis. He posited that during the 
period, many Yoruba and Igbo youths declined to report for the 
mandatory national service, due to the fear of insecurity. In as 
much as the Maitatsine crisis dealt a blow on the willingness of 
many Nigerians to be deployed to the northern part of the 
74
. Oral interview with Badamus Usman, a  researcher in Abuja on 27-08-202075 th 
. Oral interview with Ishaq Abdullahi, a retired staff of the NYSC on 4 September, 2020 
in Lokoja, age 70+
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020152
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

country, its effect did not last due to the swift response of the 
Nigerian state in quelling the crisis.
Since the Maitatsine crisis, another major issues that has 
seriously challenged the posting policy of the NYSC scheme has 
been the recurring flashes of ethnic cum religious clashes 
experienced in the country between 1999 and 2009. In spite of 
these skirmishes, the scheme continued with its posting policy 
until events of the post 2011 General Election in Nigeria and the 76 
Boko Haram terrorism in certain parts of the country. The killing 
and maiming of Nigerians in northern Nigeria after the 
declaration of President Goodluck Jonathan as the winner of the 
2011 presidential election, triggered a massive movement and 
redeployment of corps members of southern and western 
origins from majority of the troubled states to other states that 
were considered not to be conflict flashpoints, and close to their 77 
states of origins. This was responsible for the redeployment of 
majority of the corps members from Borno, Katsina, Kaduna, 
Bauchi, Kano, to mention just but a few, to places like Abuja, 
Benue, Kogi, Kwara, Ondo, Lagos, Oyo and many other states in 
the country. As a matter of fact, between 2011 and 2015, many 
local government areas in Borno and Yobe states were without 
active corps members. 
It is however, in line with the above, that the Federal 
Government approved the new NYSC Posting Policy in 2012. 
The new policy was targeted at the addressing the increasing 
abuse of the posting policy of the scheme by top government 
officials and politician. The new policy limited the posting of 
corps members to Rural Health, Primary and Secondary 
Education, Rural Infrastructural Development and Agricultural 78 
Development.
76
. Oral interview with P.O. Egwemi, a lecturer and ex-corps member in Kogi State 
University, Anyigba.77 th 
. Oral interview with Ishaq Abdullahi, a retired staff of the NYSC on 4 September, 2020 
in Lokoja, age 70+78
. Sahara Reporters, 01, 2012. Federal Government Announces New NYSC Posting 
Policy. Retrieved from http://saharareporters.com/2012/03/01/federal-government-
announces- new-nysc-posting-policy, accessed on 19-09-2020
NYSC AND THE POLICY OF POSTING AND PRIMARY ASSIGNMENTS 153
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

According to the government, its interest was to restore 
national integration and youth empowerment which had been a 
core objective of the scheme but had been distorted and abused 
and thereby defeating national integration and the associated 79 
ideas behind participating in the scheme by corps members. It 
was felt that the new policy will go a long way to checkmate the 
inequitable posting of corps members which has over the years 
led to the over- crowding at NYSC Camps in states such as 80 
Lagos, Abuja, Rivers, etc. In spite of the government's new 
policy and emphasis on rural development and posting of corps 
members, the situation has gone unabate. 
The growing waves of kidnapping, banditry and violent 
clashes between armed groups in the country have further 
complicated the matter. More than ever before, there is growing 
anxiety and panic, as many Nigerians especially those from the 
western and southern regions are reluctant to move outside their 
states to other states for national assignment or greener pastures 
while several northerners especially the Hausa-Fulani are 
reluctant to move out of their region. The implication of the 
foregoing is that several youths and parents are gradually losing 
interest in the scheme due to the intermittent and endemic state 
of insecurity. This problem has revealed that there cannot be any 
meaningful integration in the absence of security. This implies 
that the gains achieved by the scheme in its first 20 years were 
majorly influenced by the existence of relative security in the 
country. 
The storms that have continued to bedevil the posting and 
primary assignment policy of the National Youth Service Corps 
is not limited to the increasing ethnic and religious tensions and 
insecurity alone but corruption. Corruption has played a major 
79
. Sahara Reporters, 01, 2012. Federal Government Announces New NYSC Posting 
Policy. Retrieved from http://saharareporters.com/2012/03/01/federal-government-
announces- new-nysc-posting-policy, accessed on 19-09-202080
. Caleb Ayansina, February 1, 2012, FG Approves New Posting Policy for NYSC on 
F e b r u a r y  1 ,  2 0 2 0 .  V a n g u a r d  O n l i n e .  R e t r i e v e d  f r o m  
https://www.vanguardngr.com/2012/02/fg- approves-new-posting-policy-nysc/ , 
accessed on 19-09-2020
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020154
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

role in compromising the policy and spirit of the scheme long 81 
before the dawn of year 2000. As early as 1991, it was observed 
that the NYSC Decree that stipulates that youth should be 
assigned to jobs in states other than their own was increasingly 
violated. This is in addition to false declaration of age and the 82 
falsification of results in order to be mobilized. All these 
problems, in addition to the influence of politicians and top 
government and military officials in the country, who are bent 
on having their children posted to state capitals and offices of 
their choice, appear to have weakened the scheme's posting 
policy and that of primary assignment.
Conclusion: Towards Strengthening the Scheme's Policy of 
Posting and Primary Assignment
There is no gainsaying that the NYSC scheme has contributed 
immensely towards improving the tie among the various youths 
in Nigeria, especially in the post-Civil War era down to the early 
1990s. As discussed in this chapter, the scheme remains one of 
government's integrative policies that was vigorously pursued 
after the Civil War, which has yielded the desired results. The 
success of the scheme in its early years could be attributed to the 
commitment of the Nigerian Government to remedy the ills of 
ethnic suspicion that existed in the country and the 
government's understanding of the depth of the menace. Since 
the mid-1990s, questions have continued to be asked about the 
relevance of the scheme sequel to the re-emergence of the ills it 83 
was meant to tackle. The growing influence of insecurity, 
corruption and the attitude of Nigerian youths has created the 
opinion that the scheme has outlived its relevance and would 
need to redefine its focus if it is to continue to contribute 
meaningfully to national integration.
81
. Minutes of Meeting, No.1/1991 of the National Director with Directors and Assistant th th 
Directors of NYSC, held from 14 -15 March, 1991 at Sheraton Hotel and Towers, Abuja. 
p.382
. Oral interview with Ogacheko Romanus an ex-corps member in Abuja on 29-08-202083 
See Retooling Nigeria's Youth Service Corps to Drive National Transformation. Policy 
Recommendation. Retrieved from https://gga.org/retooling-nigerias-youth-service-
corps-to- drive-national-transformation/, accessed on 22-09-2020
NYSC AND THE POLICY OF POSTING AND PRIMARY ASSIGNMENTS 155
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Arising from the above, the following measures are suggested to 
strengthen the scheme's policy of posting and primary 
assignment:
(i) The scheme should rethink its continuous posting of 
engineers to the secondary schools in order to avert the 
problem of underutilization of corps members.
(ii) The scheme should expose corps members that will be 
posted to the primary and secondary schools to basic 
teaching skills. This is premised on the fact that majority of 
the corps members are without the basic teaching skills 
and education and training. This could be addressed by 
exposing corps members to the necessary teaching and 
education training during the course of 21 days orientation 
camping exercise or selected corps members that will go 
into the classrooms to teach should be made to undergo 
special teaching seminars after the 21 days orientation 
camp.
(iii) The scheme, if properly readjusted, can revamp the 
dwindling agricultural sector in Nigeria. This can be done 
by the establishment of special farms and the engagement 
of corps members from the faculty of agriculture as 
extension workers.
(iv) With the increasing centralization of the employment by 
both the Federal and State Governments, it has become 
very challenging for offices to retain corps members. This 
has contributed to the growing number of the unemployed 
in the country. The government can further expand the 
scope of scheme to empower corps members by opening 
special projects in different states of the federation where 
corps members could gainfully be empowered with the 
basic skills to cope with the post service years.
(iv) There is need for government to introduce a special 
package for corps members after their service year to 
enable them start a business. This will definitely ease the 
pressure of unemployment on the government. 
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020156
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

REFERENCES
Table 3: List of Informants
NYSC AND THE POLICY OF POSTING AND PRIMARY ASSIGNMENTS 157
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Secondary Sources
Adesina, O.C (1985), “Prelude to the Nigerian Civil War, 
1967- 1970”, B.A. Long Essay,
Department of History, University of Ife, June, 1985. Cited 
in Adesina, O.C (2015), Nigeria's Imperfect Federation: 
nd 
The Case Against the Yoruba . The 2 Professor S.O. 
Arifalo Memorial Lecture, Department of History and 
International Studies, Akungba
Annual Volume of the Laws of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 
Containing Decrees and Subsidiary Legislation Made in 
the Year 1973. (1974), Federal Ministry of Information, 
Printing Division, Lagos
Chinua Achebe (2012), There Was A Country: A Personal 
History of Biafra, The Punguin Press, New York
Col. Obasa, P.K. (1995), NYSC: A Nations Attempt at 
Mobilising the Youths , MDL Consultants Marketers, 
Ilorin
Ejela Emenako (Ed.), (1986), 12 Years of National Youth 
Service Corps in Nigeria: 1973-1985,
National Youth Service Corps Directorate Headquarters, 
Lagos Folayan Ojo. (1977), Evaluation Report on Four 
Years of the National
Youth Service Corps Scheme , NYSC Directorate 
Headquarters, Lagos
Ineke Ugbede Joseph (2018) “Building Without Pillars: 
Nigeria and the Quagmire of Nation
Building, 1966-1999" Kashere Journal of Humanities, 
Management and Social Sciences, Vol, 2 No. 1
Minutes of Meeting, No.1/1991 of the National Director  
with Directors and Assistant Directors of
th  th 
NYSC, held from 14 -15 March, 1991 at Sheraton Hotel and 
Towers, Abuja
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020158
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Hand Book 
(Revised), (1999)
National Youth Service Corps Act, CAP N84 Laws of the 
Federation of Nigeria 2004National Youth Service Corps 
Year Book: 45 Anniversary. (2018) NYSC Half Hour on 
NTA, 29-09-2020
NYSC Hand Book, Revised in 1995
Okafor Chukwuemeka and Ani Johnmary K. (2014), (The 
National Youth Service Corps
Programme and Growing Security Threat in Nigeria), 
Africa's Public Service Delivery & Performance Review , 
Vol. 2, No. 2, 2014
Report of the Committee on the Effective Utilization of Corps 
Members,(1984)
Samuel O, Asein, (1993), Call to Service: Twenty Years of the 
National Youth Service Corps Scheme: 1973-993 . Sam 
Bookman, Ibadan
The National Manpower Board, (1964), High-Level 
Manpower 1963- 70, Manpower Studies No.2
Ukase P.I (2008) “Nigeria's Post-Civil War Reconciliation 
Efforts and its Implications for the
st 
Stability of the Nigerian State in the 21 Century” in M.A. 
Adejo, (ed) (2020), The Nigerian Civil War: Forty Years 
After: What Lessons ? A Publication of the Historical 
Society of Nigeria
Online Materials
gg-ad, October 16, 2018, Retooling Nigeria's Youth Service 
Corps to Drive National
Transformation. Policy Recommendation. Retrieved from 
https:/
/gga.org/retooling-nigerias-youth-service-corps-to-
drive- national-transformation/, accessed on 22-09-
2020
NYSC AND THE POLICY OF POSTING AND PRIMARY ASSIGNMENTS 159
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Corps Mobilisation Department. R e t r i e v e d  f r o m  
rd 
https:www.nysc.gov.ng/mob.html#, accessed on 23
July, 2020
Sahara Reporters, 01, 2012. Federal Government 
Announces New NYSC Posting Policy. Retrieved
from http://saharareporters.com/2012/03/01/federal- 
government-announces-new-nysc-posting-policy, 
accessed on 19-09-2020Caleb Ayansina, February 1, 
2012, FG Approves New Posting Policy for NYSC on 
February 1, 2020. Vanguard Online . Retrieved from 
https:// www.vanguardngr.com/2012/02/fg-
approves-new- posting-policy-nysc/ , accessed on 19-
09-2020
Chioma Onwere, (1992), “National Youth Service Corps 
Programme and National Integration in Nigeria”. 
Thesis. PhD. Department of International and 
Comparative Education, Institute of Education, University 
of London. P.16
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020160
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Chapter Seven
PROGRAMMES AND ACTIVITIES OF 
NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS
Ayodele Samuel Abolorunde 
Department of History University of Ibadan
Ibadan, Nigeria
Introduction
The need for the formulation and implementation of youth 
oriented programmes remains one of the objectives of all 
governments globally. This is necessary when one considers the 
role of young people in the nation-building project. This 
importance, without any doubt, determines the extent of success 
a nation will attain in the midst of myriads of challenges which 
accompany the building of a nation. Since nation-building 
project is an unending adventure, nations all over the world 
understand the significance of the inputs youths, in their 
respective nations, can inject to the advancement of their 
countries in their quest to assume important positions within the 
committee of nations. Keen observers of Nigeria's social history 
have argued that the formation of the National Youth Service 
Corps (NYSC) in 1973 after the Nigerian civil war was a novel 
idea which took the African continent and the world at large by 
storm. They contend that the deployment of the officials of the 
American Peace Corps and British Overseas Voluntary Service 
to Nigeria for the development of the country's educational 1 
sector during the first decade of Nigeria's independence reveals 
the noble role youths can play beyond the frontiers of their 
nations. In Africa, the positioning of youths in strategic positions 
for viable nation-building project was not new prior to the 
1 
Asein, S.O. 1993. Call to Service Twenty Years of the National Youth Service Corps Scheme 
19731993 Ibadan: Sam Bookman p.15
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

formation of Nigeria's NYSC in 1973. In Tanzania, for instance, 
the TANU Youth League started its campaign from 1962 for the 
formation of Youth Service until the National Service was 2 
established on 10th July, 1963.
While one is tempted to agree with the assertion that the 
formation of NYSC was a novel one, one can easily discern the 
novelty which enveloped the formation of Nigeria's NYSC in 
1973 from two perspectives. First, while the formation of NYSC 
was designed to facilitate national integration, that of the British 
and the Americans were designed as instruments of imperialists' 
penetration of the newly independent African States. Second, 
the Tanzanian National Service served the purpose of Cold War 
ideology while that of Nigeria was embedded in the post-civil 
war reconstruction of the country. These two scenarios reveal 
the uniqueness of NYSC as the stabilizing factor of the Nigerian 
project. This argument aligns with Asein's position that the 
American and the British Youth Service penetrated the African 
continent in order to register their presence in the newly 3 
independent states of Africa. Although studies on the NYSC are 4
quite diverse , apart from Obasa and Itumo's works which 
examine the mobilization of youths in relation to nation 
building, much of these studies have not comprehensively 
interrogated the impact of the NYSC programmes and activities 5 
on Nigeria's nation-building prospect.
2 
Kila F. 1980. '' Youth Mobilization for National Development: The Tanzanian Experience'' in 
National Service for the 80s Report on the Proceedings of the Workshop on the National th th 
Youth Service Corps Scheme Kano, Kano State. 26 -28 May, 1980, pp.34-353 
Asein, S.O. 1993. Call to Service Twenty Years of the National Youth Service Corps Scheme 
19731993…p.154 
See for example, Asein, S.O. 1993. Call to Service Twenty Years of the National Youth Service 
Corps Scheme 19731993…p.15;Olomajeye, J. 1980. ''The National Youth Service Scheme and the 
Fourth National Development Plan”, in National Service for the 80s Report on the Proceedings th th 
of the Workshop on the National Youth Service Corps Scheme Kano, Kano State. 26 -28
May, 1980, pp.16-19; Emenako, G. Ed. 1986. 12 Years of National Youth Service Corps in 
Nigeria: 1973-1985 Lagos: National Youth Service Corps Directorate Headquarters; Momoh 
H.B. 1992. Imperatives of National Service in the 90s. A Collection of Speeches Vol. 1 Abuja: 
National Directorate Headquarters National Youth Service Corps; Enegwea G and 
Umoden, G. 1993. NYSC: Twenty Years of National Service Abuja and Lagos: National Youth 
Service Corps Directorate Headquarters and Gbajumo Publishing Company Limited, 1993; 
And Asein, S.O. 1993. Call to Service Twenty Years of the National Youth Service Corps Scheme 
19731993…
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020162
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

This is important because a focused enquiry into the 
activities and programmes of the scheme will x-ray how 
impactful the scheme's roles have been on the Nigerian state as 
well as the relevance of the scheme in the midst of myriad of 
challenges confronting contemporary Nigeria. This chapter 
makes a vital contribution to social history of Nigeria and moves 
discussion on Nigeria's social history in new directions. The 
chapter is divided into six sections which include the 
introduction, the Nigerian state and post-independence crises, 
1960-1970, relevance of NYSC programmes and activities to the 
stability of Nigeria, 1973-2003, the impact of NYSC programmes 
on national development, 1980- 2010, the contemporary realities 
of the Nigerian state and challenges of NYSC programme 
implementation, 2011-2018 and conclusion. 
The Nigerian State and Post-Independence Crises, 1960-1970
The eventual amalgamation of the Nigerian state by the British 
in 1914 was a product of the lumping together of all ethnic 
groups that were in the territory that later became Nigeria. These 
various ethnic groups with their high degree of autonomy co-
existed among themselves before contact was made with 
Europe. This co- existence was marked by sovereignty and non-
interference in their economic and political decisions. The British 
imperialists blatantly disregarded the socio-cultural differences 
of these various ethnic groups by failing to create a channel for 
cultural, social and political interactions among the people of a 6 
territory they claimed to have amalgamated. This conscious 
effort to keep the country apart along ethnic lines shows that the 
British only embarked on the administrative amalgamation of 
Nigeria to support their imperial presence in the country. 
The end of the Second World War in 1945 and subsequent 
pressure on the colonialists by the nationalists to grant the 
country its independence was accompanied by ethnic suspicion 
5 
Obasa, P.K. 1995. NYSC A Nation's Attempt at Mobilizing the Youths Ilorin: Market 
Development Service Limited; And Itumo, V.N. 2003. NYSC, Corps Members The Hope of 
the Nation A Book on NYSC, Youths and Nation Building Abuja: Kaylon International 
Limited.6
Agu, U. 1995. NYSC and the Nigerian Unity A Critical Appraisal  Enugu: Acena Publishers
PROGRAMMES AND ACTIVITIES OF NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS 163
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

among the various groups that make up Nigeria. This lack of 
ethnic affinity in colonial Nigeria made the late Chief Obafemi 
Awolowo to assert that amalgamation had failed to bring 
Nigerians together without any sense of citizenship that 
sustained togetherness of Nigerians unlike that of the 7
Europeans. The seed of mutual suspicion sowed by the 
imperialists through amalgamation of the Nigerian peoples 
without consultation further aggravated the tension on the eve 
of the country's independence. One of such scenarios was the 
divergent opinion of the country's nationalist in 1953 during a 
debate at the Federal House of Representatives in Lagos, where 
Anthony Enahoro, Action Group representative in the House, 
moved a motion that the country should assume the status of 8
self- government by 1956.
The motion which met stiff the opposition of northern 
delegatesin the House snowballed into Kano riots of 1953 
against the visiting A.G politicians from the South as these riots 
almost led to the complete polarization of North and South even 9 
before the country's independence. After the attainment of 
independence in 1960, the country lacked the semblance of unity 
and sustained nationhood. These ethnic divisions crept into the 
political space as the three major political parties such as 
Northern Peoples Congress (N.P.C.), National Council for 
Nigerian Citizens (N.C.N.C) and Action Group (A.G.) were 
formed along ethnic lines without any emblem of pan-Nigeria 10 
outlook. By 1964, the federal elections conducted were 
7 
Awolowo, O. Path to Nigerian Freedom   London: Cited in Fwatshak , S.U and Ayuba, J.M. 
2014. 'Amalgamation Discourses in the ''Lugardian House'' During Nigeria's First 
Centenary'
S.U. Fwatshak and O. Akinwumi Eds. The House that ''Lugard Built'' Perspectives on Nigeria's 
First Centenary: The Pains, the Gains and the Agenda for the Future Jos: Historical Society of 
Nigeria and Jos University Press Limited, p.58 
Fwatshak , S.U and Ayuba, J.M. 2014. 'Amalgamation Discourses in the ''Lugardian 
House''…pp.7-89 
Fwatshak , S.U and Ayuba, J.M. 2014. 'Amalgamation Discourses in the ''Lugardian 
House''…p.810 
See, Sklar, R.L, 'Contradictions in Nigerian Political System' Journal of Modern African Studies
Vol.3, No.2, 1965, pp.201-213. See also, Sklar, R.L. 1963. Nigerian Political Parties Princeton:
N.J. Princeton University Press. These two works were cited from Fafowora, O. 1990. Pressure 
Group and Foreign Policy A Comparative Study of the British Attitudes and Policy Towards 
Secessionist Moves in Congo (1960-1963) and Nigeria (1966-1969) Ibadan: Heinemann 
Educational Books Limited.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020164
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

accompanied by political crises caused by perceived unequal 
distribution of power and resources among the political parties 11
which represented southern and northern Nigeria.
The political imbroglio of the First Republic especially in 
1964 prepared the ground for the military intervention in the th 
country's politics on the 15 of January, 1966. The January, 1966 
coup was given ethnic interpretation and was called Igbo coup. 
This was because the leaders of the coup were officers of Igbo 
extraction while the victims such as Ahmadu Bello, Sardauna of 
Sokoto, Tafawa Balewa, the country's Prime Minister and other 
affected politicians were both of northern, south-south and 
south-west extractions. This interpretation cannot be dismissed 
with a wave of hand because some of the victims of the January 
coup were southerners of non-Igbo extraction. For instance, 
Chief S.L. Akintola, Western Region Premier and Chief Festus 
Okotie-Eboh, the then Finance Minister of the country were all 
affected. It is plausible to state that this interpretation that the 
coup was an Igbo coup was a product of seed of discord sown 
into the Nigerian project through the amalgamation of various 
ethnic groups of an area that later became Nigeria. This burden 
of mutual suspicion became an albatross for the country in its 
post-independence history. 
The tension necessitated by the coup was further 
exacerbated by the emergence of General Aguyi Ironsi, the most 
senior officer in the Nigerian Army at that time and who was of 12 
Igbo extraction. The January 1966 coup created a feeling of 
hysteria in the North, a feeling which precipitated the July, 1966 
coup that led to the gruesome murder of General Ironsi, the 
country's Head of State and Col. Adekunle Fajuyi, Governor of 13   
the Western Region at the latter's official residence in Ibadan.
With the murder  of the Western Region Governor and the Head 
11 
Fafowora, O. 1990. Pressure Group and Foreign Policy A Comparative Study of the British 
Attitudes and Policy Towards Secessionist Moves in Congo (1960-1963) and Nigeria (1966-
1969) Ibadan: Heinemann Educational Books Limited.pp.18-19.12
Ayodele, S. Abolorunde. 2019. 'Nigerian Civil War and Britain's Peace Initiative, 1967-
1970'
West Bohemian Historical Review Vol. IX No 1 2019, p.94.13 
Ayodele, S. Abolorunde .2019. 'Nigerian Civil War and Britain's Peace Initiative, 1967- 
1970'…p.94
PROGRAMMES AND ACTIVITIES OF NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS 165
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

of State, General Yakubu Gowon, a northerner emerged as the 
Head of State as this made the political atmosphere in the 
country to be sufficiently charged such that lives and properties 
of the Igbo people in the North were destroyed while some 14
reprisal attacks took place in the East.
As tension continued to mount between the eastern and 
northern regions of the country on the one hand, personality 
clash continued between General Yakubu Gowon, the Head of 
State and Col. Odumegwu Ojukwu, the Eastern Region  
Governor, who saw himself as the defender of the people of 
eastern region, on the other hand. Security situation in the 
country  deteriorated such that Ojukwu's plan of secession from 
the rest of the country was stifled by the creation of twelve states 
based on the initiative of the Gowon regime in May, 1967. The 
creation of twelve states left Ojukwu with no choice than to th 
declare the Republic of Biafra as a secessionist region on 27 May, 
1967. The declarations by these two gladiators led to the 
outbreak of the Nigerian civil war in 1967. Efforts to bring the 
war to an end in 1968 was spearheaded by Britain as the British 
government sent a powerful delegation which comprised of 
Lord Fenner Brockway, a member of the British Parliament, and 
James Griffiths, a former Colonial Secretary for possible 15 
ceasefire by December, 1968. By 1969, the British leadership 
thought of creating a platform for meaningful negotiation that 16 
would bring peace to Nigeria. The success of the initiative 
further propelled the British Prime Minister, Harold Wilson to 
take over the peace initiative between Gowon and Ojukwu in 17 
March 1969. Despite the accusation  of  genocidal activities 
14 
Okoro, I. 2014. 'Ndi Igbo of the South-East: Centenary Glimpses' S.U. Fwatshak and O. 
Akinwumi Eds. The House that 'Lugard Built' Perspectives on Nigeria's First Centenary: The 
Pains, the Gains and the Agenda for the Future Jos: Jos University Press, p.9415 
Anon: UK MPs to See Gowon, Daily Times of December 20, 1968, p.16 as cited in 
Abolorunde.
A.S. 2019. Nigerian Civil War  and Britain's Peace Initiative, 1967-1970'…16
Anon: Shephered Tells UK House of Lords Daily Times of February, 1969, p.12 as 
cited in Abolorunde. A.S. 2019. Nigerian Civil War and Britain's Peace Initiative, 1967-17 rd
1970'… Anon: Wilson Ends Final Talks New Nigerian of March 3 , 1969, p.1 as cited in 
Abolorunde.
A.S. 2019. Nigerian Civil War  and Britain's Peace Initiative, 1967-1970'…
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020166
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

against the Nigerian government through the Biafran 
propaganda and foreign commentators, the Nigerian 
government, based on its quest for peace, yielded to pressure 
from Britain as it allowed a team of international observers to 18
investigate the state of things in the country.
In order to ensure the success of their peace efforts, both the 
defunct Organization of African Unity (O.A.U) and Britain 19 
intensified their pressure on the warring factions for peace. The 
peace effort later yielded result when the Nigerian government 
assured the British and other international stakeholders that the 
Igbos will be given the same right and privileges as it had been 
granting to other Nigerians provided the secessionists were 20 
ready for peace without prior conditions. The readiness of both 
the Nigerian state and Biafra to embrace peace necessitated the th 
eventual surrender of the Biafran troops on 12 January, 1970 as 
the Nigerian government declared the slogan of 'No victor no 
vanquish'.
Relevance of NYSC Programmes and Activities to the Stability 
of Nigeria, 1973-2003
The emergence of the NYSC as a scheme cannot be insulated 
from the history of the Nigerian civil war which lasted for 30 
months. The end of the war further entrenched ethnic suspicion, 
unhealthy rivalry, mutual distrust, religious bigotry and tribal 21 
intolerance. This unhealthy socio-political atmosphere was one 
of the factors that compelled the federal military government to 
sustain its slogan of 'no victor no vanquish' through the policy of 
Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and Reconciliation, the three 
(Rs). The whole essence of this was to foster unity which, in the 
18 
See, Smith K.E. 2014. The UK and Genocide Research as cited in Ayodele, S. Abolorunde . 
2019. Nigerian Civil War and Britain's Peace Initiative, 1967-1970'…19   st 
See, Anon: Ojukwu Turned Down Wilson's Invitation Daily Sketch of 1 April, 1969, p.1. nd 
See also, Anon: Wilson's Second Note to Ojukwu New Nigerian of 2 April, 1969. Both 
papers were cited from Ayodele, S. Abolorunde . 2019. Nigerian Civil War and Britain's 
Peace Initiative, 1967-1970'…20 rd 
Anon: Wilson Report Back to Commons Morning Post of 3 April, 1969, p.1 cited in 
Ayodele,
S. Abolorunde . 2019. Nigerian Civil War and Britain's Peace Initiative, 1967-1970'…21 
NYSC Year Book 1991 as extracted from NYSC Archives Directorate Headquarters, 
Abuja Lagos: Gbajumo Publishing Company Limited, p.23
PROGRAMMES AND ACTIVITIES OF NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS 167
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

estimation of the military, was capable of ensuring 22 
developmental strides in the country. One of the strategies 
adopted to sustain the three (Rs) was the muting of an idea of 
youth scheme that would sustain unity among Nigerians of the 
post-civil war era and future generations. The activation of this 
intention was first demonstrated by the Gowon regime during 
the 1972 National Day Broadcast where Gowon stated that:
The Federal Military Government recognises that 
the future of this country lies in the hands of the 
youth of today. It is, therefore, prepared to ensure 
that it provides the physical, mental and spiritual 
environment in which those young persons can 
grow up to be worthy citizens of this great Nation. 
The government proposes to establish a compulsory 
National Youth Service Corps, the aim of which is to 
bring together our qualified young men and women 
and to inculcate them a sense of discipline, 
dedication, national pride and consciousness 
through nationally directed disciplined training, not 
necessarily in the Armed Forces but serving the 
nation in any way and capacity for a short period in 
their life time before settling down to their chosen 23
career.
The intention of the Federal Military Government to 
actualise the dream of fostering post-war unity in the country 
was further demonstrated at an academic gathering during the th 
8 Convocation Ceremony of Ahmadu Bello University in 
December, 1972, where the Head of State articulated the 
22 
See the interview granted by the former military Governor of Ogun State, Navy Captain 
Oladeinde Joseph to Sunday Times of October 20, 1991, p.11 Extract from National Day 
Broadcast of General Yakubu Gowon, Head of State and Commander in Chief of the Armed rd
Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Culled from the Daily Sketch of October 3 , 1972, p.4.23 
Extract from National Day Broadcast of General Yakubu Gowon, Head of State and 
Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Culled from the rd
Daily Sketch of October 3 , 1972, p.4.
The Extract was lifted from Asein, O.1993. Call to Service a book extracted from NYSC 
Archives, Abuja, p.21
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020168
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

24 
intention to mobilize Nigerian youths for national service. In 
order to actualise the formation of the NYSC, the Federal 
Government in 1972 further deepened its relationship with the 
Committee of Vice Chancellors which had earlier called for a 
one-year national service scheme for Nigerian undergraduates 25 
in 1969. By May 22, 1973, just six weeks before the call up date of 
July 2, 1973, the Federal Government enacted a decree which 26
endorsed the formation of NYSC.
The decree stated that:
The Federal Military Government hereby decree as 
follows: 
There is hereby established a scheme to be known as 
the National Youth Service Corps with a view to the 
proper encouragement and development of 
communities among youths of Nigeria and the 
promotion of national unity the service corps shall be 
charged with all such functions as pertain to the 27
objectives of the service corps.
From the above, it was clear that the decree mandated all 
Nigerian graduates to participate in a one year national service. 
The decree which established the scheme initially covered only 
Nigerian youths not more than 30 years of age and who were 
graduates of Nigerian Universities, while those Nigerian 
graduates more than 30 years of age and Nigerian graduates 
from the Universities abroad were excluded from the scheme 
which called up about 2, 757 corps members from the existing 
five Universities at that time, University of Ife (now Obafemi 
Awolowo University O.A.U), Ahmadu Bello University, 
University of Lagos, University of Ibadan and University of 
24 
Asein, O. 1993. Call to Service…p.21
Enegwea, G and Umoden, G.1993. NYSC Twenty Years of National Service Lagos: Gbajumo 
Publishing Company Limited p.925 
Enegwea, G and Umoden, G.1993. NYSC Twenty Years of National Service…p.17 26
Agu, U. 1995. NYSC and the Nigerian Unity A Critical Appraisal…p.30 27
Enegwea, G and Umoden, G.1993. NYSC Twenty Years of National Service…p.17
PROGRAMMES AND ACTIVITIES OF NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS 169
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

28 
Nigeria, Nsukka. A total amount of six million naira was 29
earmarked for the take-off of the scheme in 1973.
When the formation of the scheme came into the public 
domain, Nigerians, especially prospective graduates of 1972/73 
session and undergraduates across the country's universities, 
protested against the scheme as they saw it as a strategy capable 
of preventing them from settling down early enough to their 
chosen careers and this in their estimation delayed the 30 
anticipated glorious future. As the federal government faced 
intensified opposition against the scheme, it was able to 
demonstrate the readiness to kick start it with the aim of 
rebuilding the country's unity that was shattered by the post-
independence crises which the civil war was part of. The 
plausibility of the scheme in the estimation of the Gowon regime 
was to correct the foundational problem of ethnic suspicion and 
disunity which accompanied the emergence of the Nigerian 
state as construed by the colonialists. It is salient to state that the 
NYSC programmes and activities are anchored upon four major 
pillars, namely: (i) The mobilization and three-week orientation 
of corps members. (ii)The Place of Primary Assignment (PPA); 
(iii) Community Development Scheme (CDS); and (iv) Passing 
out Parade (PP).
Despite the huge logistical burden placed on the shoulders 
of the federal government in mobilizing the graduates, huge 
population of Nigerian graduates who were ready to participate 
in the scheme after the removal of age restriction did not 
discourage the Nigerian government from shouldering the 
scheme's huge financial burden. Nigerian graduates within and 
outside Nigeria were graciously allowed to participate in the 
scheme as the huge financial commitment used in sustaining the 
scheme continued unabated. For instance, the annual increase of 
28 
Agu, U. 1995. NYSC and the Nigerian Unity A Critical Appraisal…pp.29-3029 
Ojo, F. 1977. Evaluation Report on Four Years of the National Youth Service Corps Scheme as 
documented by National Youth Service Corps Directorate Headquarters Lagos, p.11. 
Report Retrieved from the NYSC Directorates' Archives Abuja, p. 6.30 
Agu, U. 1995. NYSC and the Nigerian Unity A Critical Appraisal…p.31
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020170
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

those mobilized for the orientation programmes increased from 31
25.5 percent in 1974 to 40.3 percent in 1977.
The shouldering of this financial burden by the Federal 
Military Government reveals the extent of its commitment to the 
country's unity. The swearing-in ceremony was usually 
followed by orientation course organised by the State 
Coordinator, Camp Director, Camp Commandant and other 32 
experts in various fields. Orientation courses organized for the 
mobilized graduates include drill, Man 'O' War activities, 
physical training, language study, cultural activities, lectures, 33 
religious activities etc. The drills were usually handled by 
military and police instructors while instructors for the 
leadership training took care of non-drill activities. By the 1980s, 
the orientation programme was organized such that camp 
commandants were invited to pre-orientation course briefings 
while the contents were also adjusted to address the emerging 34 
problems inherent in the orientation programme. During the 
1980s, the scheme, in its bid to surmount the myriad of problems 
confronting it, further organized workshops and paper 
presentations by scholars, experts, policy analysts and 35
bureaucrats that cut across various fields.
This strategy had far reaching impact on the orientation 
programmes in the 1980s as the NYSC Directorate earmarked 
one out of the three-week orientation for professional 
orientation for the categories of corps members who served as 
teachers, doctors, lawyers, pharmacists and engineers with great 36 
emphasis on teaching. The whole essence of this strategy, in the 
1980s, was to equip the corps members with ideas through 
31 
Emanako, G.E Ed. 1986. 12 Years of National Youth Service Corps in Nigeria, 1973-1985 Lagos: 
National Youth Service Corps Directorate Headquarters, p.32. Book extracted from NYSC 
Directorate, Abuja.32 
Ojo, F. 1977. Evaluation Report on Four Years of the National Youth Service Corps Scheme…p.633 
See, Composite Policy Document of NYSC Directorate Headquarters, Abuja, 2013, p.4034 
See, General Policy Guideline for NYSC Orientation Courses as Prepared by Planning 
Research and Statistics Department, Directorate Headquarters, Abuja, p.17.35 
See, Report on the Proceedings of the Workshop on the National Youth Service Corps th  
Scheme in the 80s Kano, Kano State. 26-28 May, 1980.36 
See, Report on the Proceedings of the Workshop on the National Youth Service Corps th  
Scheme in the 80s Kano, Kano State. 26-28 May, 1980.
PROGRAMMES AND ACTIVITIES OF NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS 171
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

workshop and orientation programmes with the aim of 
enhancing service delivery during their period of one year 
service to the nation. The huge commitment of the scheme 
through the orientation programmes of corps members, was, 
however, stifled by the economic difficulties which emanated 
from the collapse of crude oil prices in the 1980s as income 
generated from crude oil export fell from 15 billion naira in 1980 
to 5.1 billion in 1982 with huge debt and depleted foreign 37 
reserves during this period. Due to the economic difficulties of 
the 1980s, the burden of mobilizing the Nigerian graduates in 
1983/84 session was reduced through the restoration of age limit 
while holders of N.C.E and those who had previously served in 38 
the military and paramilitary were exempted.
As policies and programmes of youth mobilization into the 
NYSC were positioned in the 1980s due to economic hardship 
which also affected the economic well-being of the Nigerian 
graduates after service year, the federal government, through 
NYSC, devised a strategy of ameliorating the high rate of 
unemployment in that decade through the injection of 
Entrepreneurship Development Programme (EDP) into the 
three weeks' orientation programme of the mobilization 39 
exercise. The EDP was further strengthened when in 1986 the 
scheme established a synergy with National Directorate of 
Employment (N.D.E). This institutional collaboration with 
N.D.E created awareness for corps members on the need for self-40 
employment after service year. Due to the perennial economic 
difficulties of the 1990s, the scheme abrogated the provision of 
37
See Handbook for Corps Members on Teaching Assignments Orientation Lecture 
Series 1980-1984 as extracted from NYSC Archives Abuja.38 
See, Olukoshi, A. 1995. 'The Political Economy of Structural Adjustment Programme' in 
S. Adejumobi and A. Momoh. Eds. The Political Economy of Nigeria Under Military Rule, 
1984- 1993 Harare: Civil Liberty Organization See also, Ayodele, S. Aborisade (now 
Abolorunde)..2018. 'Nigeria's Foreign Reserves and the Challenges of Development, 
1960- 2010' West Bohemian Historical Review Vol. VIII No1.39
Agu, U. 1995. NYSC and the Nigerian Unity A Critical Appraisal…p.3140 
Momoh, H.B. 1992. Imperatives of the National Service in the 90s A Collection of Speeches Vol. 
1
Abuja: National Directorate Headquarters, Abuja, p.76.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020172
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

housing for some of its staff, while officers from level 12 and 41 
above were allowed to have access to housing facilities. The 
housing policy of the 1990s compelled State Directors to explore 
the possibility of acquiring quarters for eligible officers from 
various state governments as well as the Federal Ministry of 42
Works.
In his speech, Towards Effective Corps Mobilization-Guidelines 
for the 1990s, Col. Hafiz, the then Director General of the Scheme, 
argues that the scheme in the 1990s had put in place a new 
strategy of mobilization and deployment which enhanced the 
mobilization process through proper restructuring of the NYSC 43 
bureaucracy. At the dawn of the new millennium, the duration 
for the orientation exercise which followed the mobilization was 
adjusted to a period of four weeks depending on how much was 44 
available for the entire exercise.
The scenario of the orientation programme marked a 
departure from the hitherto rigid three weeks orientation. The 
new millennium ushered in a flexible policy position of 2-4 
weeks' orientation exercise. The reason for this flexibility was 
unconnected with the emerging challenges which confronted 
the scheme and the need to confront these challenges through 
additional programmes during the orientation exercise 
warranted the adjustment. This strategy became necessary in 
2003 the year the NYSC clocked 30 years when the scheme 
discovered that corps members faintly implement what they 45 
were taught during and after the service year.
41
Okhaikhabor, A. 2002. NYSC Priority Redefined Okigwe: jane-mos Communication A 
Division of Softlinks Organisation p.1342 
Itumo, V.N. 2003. NYSC, Corps Members The Hope of the Nation A Book on NYSC, Youths 
and Nation Building…p.343 
See, Government Publication as extracted from NYSC Archives, Abuja on the Report on 
the Post-Orientation Course Service Year 1973-74 Lagos: National Youth Service Corps 
Cabinet Office, Lagos, 1974, p.1044 
Obasa, P.K. 1980. 'The Concept of Motivating the Youths' in National Service for the 80s 
Report on the Proceedings of the Workshop on the National Youth Service Corps Scheme th th 
Kano, Kano State. 26 -28 May, 1980, p.14.45 
Obasa, P.K. 1980. 'The Concept of Motivating the Youths'…p.14
PROGRAMMES AND ACTIVITIES OF NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS 173
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The three-week orientation programme was usually 
followed by primary assignments for the corps members. Since 
1973 when the scheme commenced, corps members were always 
mandated to carry out their primary assignments in several 
governments departments, corporations, schools and few 
private firms as largely determined by the requests of these 46 
institutions. The primary assignment for corps members has 
never been optional due to its legal backing as enshrined in 
decree 24 of 1973 which mandated the NYSC Directorate to take 
into consideration the qualifications of corps members before 
posting them to places of primary assignments. As expected, 
corps members, right from the inception of the scheme in 1973, 
indulge in lobbying for deployment to preferred location, 
although this is hardly granted by the Directorate, which always 
ensures that corps members were treated well by their 
employers.
To further strengthen this policy, the 1980s, the scheme put 
in place rigid structures of discipline which mandates corps 
members to comport themselves in their places of primary 47 
assignments as well as their host communities. One noticeable 
change in the primary assignment programme of the 1980s was 
the readiness of the Directorate of the scheme to award prizes to 
corps members who distinguish themselves in their places of 48 
primary assignments, as well as their host communities. Parts 
of the discipline which attracted commendation during that 
period was the demonstration of readiness by corps members to 
remain in their places of primary assignments and can only leave 
with the permission of their employer while defaulters were 49 
denied their monthly allowance, in addition to other sanctions.
46   
Obasa, P.K. 1995. 'Attempt at Mobilizing the Youths'…p.5547 
Momoh, H.B. 1992. Imperatives of the National Service in the 90s A Collection of Speeches Vol. 
1…p.2748 
See, Momoh, H.B. 1992. Imperatives of the National Service in the 90s A Collection of Speeches 
Vol. 1…p.29. See also, Publications of National Youth Service Corps Inspectors Manual Abuja: 
National Directorate Headquarters, Abuja, 1998, p.6449 
Agunbiade, S.A. 1993. The National Youth Service Corps: A Challenge to Government, 
Youths and the Nigerian Society A Study for the Nigerian Institute of Social and Economic 
Research NISER, Ibadan, Ibadan Nigeria, p.39
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020174
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

By 1991, Corps Members' Forum was established as a 
platform for corps members to meet regularly and discuss issues 
affecting them as well as map out strategies for national 
development and their resolutions were transmitted to the three 
tiers of governments through the support of the NYSC 50 
Directorate Headquarters. The scheme also made NYSC 
Presidential Honours and Award an annual exercise in 
December 1992 while the then Head of State, General Ibrahim 
Gbadamosi Babangida directed that winners should be selected 51 
purely on merit rather than on state basis.
The annual award strategy by the scheme further enhanced 
the quality of service delivery of the corps members in their 
places of primary assignments. Although the place of primary 
assignment of the scheme is compulsory for all corps members, 
the motivational strategies of the annual Presidential award 
ensured the corps members effectiveness in the discharge of 52 
their duties to the nation. The annual Presidential award was 
not the only motivational strategy adopted by the scheme for 
corps members in the 1990s, the Directorate also intensified its 
monitoring and inspections of corps members' activities and 
their performances in their places of primary assignments. The 
leadership of the scheme also impressed it on the employers of 
corps members the importance of good working condition of 53
young graduates serving their fatherland.
The disciplinary procedure of the NYSC Directorate in the 
1990s further promoted productivity among corps members in 
their places of primary assignments as the Directorate further 
placed emphasis on withholding the discharge certificate of 
erring corps members and the extension of period of service or 
other means depending on the nature of the offence committed 
50
Asein, S.O. 1993. Call to Service Twenty Years of the National Youth Service Corps 
Scheme…p.6951
Asein, S.O. 1993. Call to Service Twenty Years of the National Youth Service Corps 
Scheme…p.7052 
See,   National Youth Service Corps Composite Policy Document, 2013, p.5553 
Agu, U. 1995. NYSC and the Nigerian Unity A Critical Appraisal…p.62
Anon: Mobilization of   Corps Members   for Community   Development   NYSC Year Book   th
20 Anniversary Edition, 1973-1993.
PROGRAMMES AND ACTIVITIES OF NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS 175
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

54 
by the corps member. At the dawn of the millennium, the 
purpose of primary assignment as an important aspect of the 
scheme assumed greater importance as the inspection of corps 
members in their places of primary assignment was intensified 
through first, second, third and fourth quarters inspection. 
Inspection reports on corps members were usually forwarded to 
the Directorate Headquarters through the Inspectorate 55
Department at Abuja.
The most crucial aspect of the NYSC programmes which 
facilitates the stability of the Nigerian state in terms of unity is 
the Community Development Service (C.D.S). When the NYSC 
scheme started in 1973, the Community Development Service 
hitherto known as the secondary assignment usually took place 56 
for three weeks during Christmas holidays. Towards the end of 
the 1970s, the secondary assignment as it was known then was 
renamed the Easter Community Development Exercise, while 
the programme was restructured from Community 
Development Programme to all year round Community 57 
Development Service by the Directorate in 1987. From the 
1980s, the CDS programme had expanded in scope beyond rural 
development as corps members were involved in health 
education and other social responsibilities thereby increasing 58
the scope of interaction with the host communities.
In the same vein, the CDS was extended to farming in line 
with the quest for self-sufficiency in food production since 59 
independence. Corps members who wished to take to farming 
after service year were encouraged through the farming 60
programme.
54 
Agu, U. 1995. NYSC and the Nigerian Unity A Critical Appraisal…pp.62-6355
Onwere, C. 1992. National Youth Service Corps Programme and National Integration in Nigeria, Being a 
PhD Submitted to the Department of International and Comparative Education Institute of 
Education, University of London, p.10256 th 
Anon: Mobilization of Corps Members for Community Development NYSC Year Book 20 Anniversary 
Edition, 1973-1993.57 th 
Anon: Mobilization of Corps Members for Community Development NYSC Year Book 20 Anniversary 
Edition, 1973-1993.58 th 
Anon: Mobilization of Corps Members for Community Development NYSC Year Book 20 Anniversary 
Edition, 1973-1993.59 
Enegwea, G and Umoden, G.1993. NYSC Twenty Years of National Service…p.6160 
See, National Youth Service Corps Inspectors Manual as extracted from the NYSC Archives, Abuja. 
Abuja: Corps Inspectorate Department, National Directorate Headquarters, Abuja, 1998, p.63
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020176
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

By the 1990s, the capacity of the scheme through its CDS 
programme was enhanced through the establishment of agro-
based industries as well as feed mill industry in Ipaja, Lagos 61 
State and a Garri Processing Factory in Afon Kwara State. The 
Rice Mill in Ezeiko, Anambra was also commissioned while a 
shoe factory was also established in Edo State. In the last quarters 
of 1992, tailoring factory was opened in Minna for corps 62 
members to produce their uniforms. From the foregoing, it 
could be argued that the philosophical underpinnings of the 
CDS Programme which mandated corps members to interact 
with members of rural communities with the strategy of 
exposing them to customs, traditions and overall sociological 
orientations of the host communities also instilled in them 
orientation of self-sufficiency for the overall growth of the 63 
nation. The whole essence was to transmute these cultural 
values to capacity building of the corps members who were 
positioned as major contributors to the country's socio-economic th 
development. Towards the end of the 20 century, the CDS 
programme of the scheme introduced reward system. The 
reward system was coordinated by Zonal Inspectors who in the 
late 1990s collated the data on projects and services rendered in 
their Local Government Areas for processing by the State 64 
Secretariats and NYSC vetting committee at state level. The 
State Committee was responsible for picking the best three CDS 
projects per state which were forwarded to the Directorate 
Headquarters in Abuja for final selection at the national level 
after thorough verification of physical projects which emanated 65
from the CDS.
At the dawn of the millennium, the CDS programme was 
divided into three: Traditional Community Development (TCD) 
61
See, Composite Policy Document of NYSC Directorate Headquarters, Abuja, 2013, pp.66-6762   
Emenako, G.E Ed. 1986. 12 Years of National Youth Service Corps in Nigeria, 1973-1985…p.1963
Obasa, P.K. 1995. NYSC A Nations Attempt at Mobilizing the Youth…p.6064
See, National Youth Service Corps Inspectors Manual as extracted from the NYSC Archives, 
Abuja. Abuja: Corps Inspectorate Department, National Directorate Headquarters, Abuja, 
1998, p.3765 
Interview granted by Roseline Uloma Ekeh, a former Corps Member who served in th 
Ekpoma, Edo State via a telephone conversation in Lagos on the 18 of September, 2020 23 
Years
PROGRAMMES AND ACTIVITIES OF NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS 177
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

in which corps members were dedicated to the execution of 
projects and programmes that improved the living conditions of 
host communities; the Year Round Community Development 
(YRCD) which enabled corps members to embark on personal 
developmental projects in their host communities; and 
Collaborative Community Development Project (CCDP) which 
enabled the NYSC to collaborate with governmental and non- 
governmental organisations which had interests in the scheme 
through the signing of Memorandum of Understanding (MOU), 
where corps members were exposed to capacity building based 
66
on the projects executed through the collaboration.
The Passing Out Parade (POP) is usually the last programme 
of the NYSC scheme. During the first two decades of the scheme, 
corps members were usually gathered for a passing out parade 
67 
in order to receive the certificate for national service. The POP, 
during the first two decades, commenced with debriefing of 
corps members as they were also allowed to narrate and assess 
what was gained during the service year. In the 1990s, the 
programmes of the POP were extended to encourage corps 
members to make suggestions to the Directorate on how best the 
68 
scheme can be improved upon.
 During this period, the scheme further added candour to the 
POP through the taking of roll call of corps members who had 69 
successfully completed their service year. The awards were 
given to outstanding corps members during the service year. 
Corps members who had impacted lives of the people of their 
host communities through the erection of an extra-ordinary 
projects were honoured at the state level while their names were 
66
Interview granted by Roseline Uloma Ekeh, a former Corps Member who served in th 
Ekpoma, Edo State via a telephone conversation in Lagos on the 18 of September, 2020 23 
Years67 
Emenako, G.E Ed. 1986. 12 Years of National Youth Service Corps in Nigeria, 1973-1985…p.1968 
Interview by Dr Mohammed Hassan Mohammed, Senior Officer of Public Service th 
Institute of Nigeria on the 10 of August, 2020. The Interviewee served in Taraba State 
during the 2005/2006 Session. 40+69 
Interview granted by Mrs Bunmi Morgridge , Assistant Director, Ministry of Information th   
and Culture on the 10 of August, 2020 in Abuja. The Interviewee served in Anambra State 
during the 1985/1986 Session. Age: 50+
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020178
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

subsequently forwarded to the national secretariat for 
consideration for national award.
The Impact of NYSC Programmes on National Development, 
1980-2010
The impact of NYSC programmes and activities cannot be over 
emphasized. One fundamental impact of the scheme is the 
bringing together of Nigerian youths of various ethnic 
backgrounds. This facilitates cultural and linguistic integration 70 
on short and long term bases. The short term basis of cultural 
and linguistic infusion emanates from fraternisation of corps 
members from different parts of the country during the few 
weeks of orientation exercise while the long term interaction 
emanates from the interaction of corps member posted to the 
same communities and places of primary assignments for over 71 
10 months. This explains why corps members across the 
federation formed 'Corpers' Association' in the 1980s at 
grassroots level for the purpose of mobilizing Nigerian youths 
across ethnic lines for unity of the entire nation through the 72 
scheme. It has also been established that some marriages 
among Nigerians of various ethnic divide were consummated 
through the scheme. Long lasting relationships among 
Nigerians youths of various religious and ethnic background 
had been established and these to an extent, had entrenched 
unity and tranquillity among various groups that make up 73
Nigeria.
Beyond the issue of marriage, the scheme had further 
entrenched unity through the level of interactions of corps 
members who come from different ethnic groups of the country 74   
with the desire to learn from each other's culture Interview 
70 
Agu, U. 1995. NYSC and the Nigerian Unity A Critical Appraisal…p.8671 
In 2012 these collaborative efforts culminated into the scheme's SAED initiative which has 
continued to produce employers of labour across the nooks and crannies of the country.72 
Osuola, J.O. Social Mobilization and Mass Poverty  The Punch, Thursday, August 20, 1987, 73 
Osuola, J.O. Social Mobilization and Mass Poverty The Punch, Thursday, August 20, 1987. 
Asein, S.O. 1993. Call to Service Twenty Years of the National Youth Service Corps Scheme…p.144. 
See also, Osuola, J.O. Social Mobilization and Mass Poverty The Punch, Thursday, August 20, 
1987.74 
Enegwea, G and Umoden, G.1993. NYSC Twenty Years of National Service…p.166
PROGRAMMES AND ACTIVITIES OF NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS 179
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

granted by Mrs Bunmi Morgridge , Assistant Director, Ministry th 
of Information and Culture on the 10 of August, 2020 in Abuja. 
The Interviewee served in Anambra State during the 1985/1986 75 
Session. Age: 50+ Agu, U. 1995. NYSC and the Nigerian Unity A 
Critical Appraisal…p.86 as well as their host communities across 
the country. The cordial relationships were mostly experienced 
through the CDS projects some of the corps member undertook. 
For instance, an ex-corps member was installed as the 
''OLOROGUN'' of Iyade in the former Bendel State as a 
retaliatory gesture for his inestimable contribution to the unity 
and development of Iyade town during his days as a corps 76 
member. The traditional title was bestowed on him despite his 
state of origin. This was a manifestation of unity brought by the 
scheme.
It must be emphasized that the main aim of the scheme was 
to restore the unity of purpose lost on the eve of the civil war. 
This to an extent, was restored by the scheme in the 1980s. The 
unity of purpose brought by the scheme was not unconnected to 
the policy guidelines which emanated from the Directorate 
Headquarters as policy formulation and implementation across 
all the states of the federation were cloaked with the principle of 77 
uniformity. The economic impact of the scheme cannot be 
underestimated either. Due to the high rate of unemployment in 
the 1980s, the scheme created the Job Permanent Unit (JPU) as an 
institutional reaction to acute unemployment rate in the 78 
country. This was followed by the vigorous efforts of the 
scheme through its successive leadership for foster collaborative 
partnership with the National Directorate of Employment   
(NDE) through the establishment of Entrepreneurship 
Development Programme (EDP) in 1986. The formation of EDP 
75
National Youth Service Corp, NYSC Year  Book: 45th Commemorative Edition, 2019.76 
Odeh, G.O. 2019. The Gambia's NYSS Partnership with International Organisation for Migration 
(IOM): Lessons for Nigeria's NYSC Scheme in the Twenty First Century Being a Paper Presented at 
the Conference Organized by the University of Texas at Austin. The Paper was also Presented 
at Conference on Culture, Politics and Contemporary Issues in the Gambia Held at Paradise 
Suit Hotel, 3 Paradise Beach Place, off Berting Harding Highway (Kololi), Banjul, the Gambia, th th 
14 -15 December, 2019, p.9.77 
See, The Composite Policy Document of NYSC Directorate Headquarters, Abuja, 2013, p.22.78 
The Composite Policy Document of NYSC Directorate Headquarters, Abuja, 2013, p.82.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020180
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

through the scheme helped greatly in ameliorating the problem 
of unemployment in the country because it helped in developing 
the entrepreneurs who started and managed small and medium 
scale industries. The implication of this was the boosting of the 
micro sector of the country's economy in the 1980s. By the 1990s, 
the impact of the scheme on the educational sector had become 
monumental. During this decade, more than 70% of 400,000 
graduates mobilized for the scheme served in the educational 
institutions ranging from primary to tertiary levels with 79 
impressive performance.
The contributions of the scheme to educational development 
could be seen in the way youth corps members were posted to 
various primary, secondary and tertiary institutions across the 
country. The impact of the scheme in the area of education was 
not only felt among the young people especially in the rural 
areas, the adult were also affected positively as corps members 
became tools of social mobilisation which engendered 80 
atmosphere of peace in the country. This, in a way, has reduced 
the perennial shortage of manpower in the rural areas and some 
vital sectors in the country. The health sector also benefited 
immensely from the scheme through the mobilization of 
graduates and non-graduates of medicine for the improvement 
of primary and secondary health sectors especially in the rural 
areas of the country. In the 1990s, effective healthcare delivery 
was brought to the doorsteps of many rural communities 
through corps members who were mobilized for the 
enlightenment of rural dwellers, especially on the need to keep 81 
their environment clean for healthy living. With the support of 
the federal government, the scheme, in the 1990s acquired over 
7,000 hectares of farmland in all states of the federation 
79   
See, the Composite Policy Document of NYSC Directorate Headquarters, Abuja, 2013, 
p.8280   
Thomas, D. NYSC: Time for Another Reflection The Punch of Thursday September 24, 
1986.81 
Mukhta, A. Kastina A. 2012. 'Nigeria's Security Challenges and Crisis of Development 
Towards a New Framework for Analysis' International Journal of Developing Societies 
Vol.1, No3, 2012, p.109
PROGRAMMES AND ACTIVITIES OF NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS 181
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

including Abuja for the cultivation of maize, rice, guinea corn 
and millet, cassava, pineapple, soya beans, sorghum and 82 
cowpea. Since the year 2000, the scheme has systematic 
expanded these farms and is massively producing all kinds of 
food crops across Nigeria. In addition, the scheme contributes 
immensely to livestock production of the country through 
projects in places like Osun, Ogun, Ondo, Benue, Imo, Lagos, 83 
Enugu, Plateau, Kano, Bauchi, Sokoto and Kastina States.
Through such efforts, the NYSC is said to be contributing to the 
feeding of the country. 
The scheme also assisted the country in the boosting of local 
production as it ventured into the establishment of a shoe factory 
in Benin-City, Edo State while a garment factory was also 
established in Minna, Niger State as these factories offered 
entrepreneurial training in fashion designing to a select group of 
corps members every year. The whole essence of this was to 
instill entrepreneurial skills in young graduates who were less 
likely to secure white collar jobs in the labour market due to the 
economic situation in Nigeria and as a result, the strategy of the 
scheme in this regard was laudable especially in the area of 
agricultural production where corps members were enjoined to 
contribute to the food basket of the nation through their CDS. By 
1994 impact of the NYSC activities and programmes in Nigeria 
began to spread beyond the shores of the country as the scheme 
began to attract international attention. The recognition nd 
emanated from the country's hosting of 2 Youth Global 
Conference in Abuja, the country's capital in 1994. Also, other 
countries, especially those within Africa, emulated Nigeria on 
the strategies of developing their countries through youth 84 
scheme. One of such African countries was the Gambia as the 
country's delegation led by Mrs Amina Faal-Sanko, the then 
Gambian Minister of Youth, Sport and Culture used the occasion 
of the conference to study the critical areas of Nigeria's NYSC 
scheme.
82 
Mukhta, A. Kastina . 2012. 'Nigeria's Security Challenges and Crisis of Development 
Towards a New Framework for Analysis'…p.114
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020182
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The dawn of the millennium brought so many challenges to the 
activities and programmes implemented by the scheme since the th 
19 century. One of such challenges was the need to instill the 
culture of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) 
into the formal and informal sectors of the country's economy. 
To this end, the scheme ensured that corps members who served 
the nation from the early 2000s keyed into the ICT infrastructure 85 
of the scheme through the teaching of ICT software solutions.
The rationale behind this ICT strategy was to further sharpen the 
ICT skills of the country's graduates who became active players 
of formal and informal sectors of the Nigerian economy. The 
implication of this initiative by the scheme was the generation of 
employment opportunities in the country's ICT sector through 
website designs and other forms of ICT driven-advertisements 
inherent in the country's cyber space.
This, somehow, had ameliorated the heavy burden of 
unemployment within the country's economy. The scheme at 
the dawn of the millennium had also keyed into the United 
Nations Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). The 
implication of this was the total revamping of the scheme's st 
Entrepreneurship Development Programme in the 21 century 
through a strong partnership with the office of the United 86 
Nations MDGs in Nigeria. This strategy of development since st 
the beginning of the 21 century had led to the sensitization and 
mobilisation of 200,000 young graduates for skill acquisition 
annually in collaboration with Public-Private Partnership for the 87 
development of the country's entrepreneurial drive. This has 
instilled into the minds of young graduates, the vision for self-
reliance without the search for unavailable white-collar jobs 
within the public and private sectors of the Nigerian economy.
Challenges of Programme Implementation
One of the current realities of the Nigerian state which poses 
threat to the programme implementation of the NYSC scheme 88 
isinsecurity. This has spiraled in the wake of Boko Haram and 
the rise in rural banditry across the country. The fear and 
PROGRAMMES AND ACTIVITIES OF NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS 183
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

anxiety, insecurity generates implicates the capacity of the 
Directorate to mobilize corps members and keep them focused 
in the task of diligently serving the country. Indeed, perennial 
insecurity in the country poses a great challenge to the 89
integrative strategies of the Nigerian state through the NYSC.
Structural imbalances in the socio-economic conditions of 
the people have brought acute inequalities and poverty that 
generate conflicts. These conflicts according to Kastina, were 
created by conscious policy of social and political exclusion that 90 
heightens insecurity in Nigeria. The high level of insecurity in 
the country can be described as a reactionary strategy of the 
excluded groups of individuals who see themselves as 
stakeholders of the Nigerian project. The manifestation of 
violence by these groups, known and unknown, has 
overstretched the resources, expertise and competence of 
Nigeria's security apparatus to the limit. This is because the 
security challenges are multifaceted and multi- dimensional as 
they range from political and electioneering conflicts, socio-
economic agitations, ethno-religious crises, ethnic militias, 
criminality and other organised crimes.
The security challenge had somehow altered the process of 
cultural integration of the various ethnic groups that make up 
Nigeria as corps members were afraid of being killed. The 
implication of this unpleasant security situation are manifold. 
first, it has also whittled down the effectiveness of one of the 91 
most integrative tools, that is, the CDS. The CDS, over the years, 
had played effective roles in the fusion of cultures of both the 
corps members from different parts of the country and their host 
communities. Secondly, it has made it difficult for corps 
members outside the geo-political zone of a particular 
community to serve in such a community. Third, it has 
contributed to the collapse of the country's social fabric in terms 
of morals.Another emerging challenges of the scheme has been 
perceived by stakeholders as both internal and external. 
Internally, it is generally believed that funds allocated to the . 
scheme are inadequate Following the steady increase in corps 
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020184
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

members over the yeas, the schemes has grappled with teething 
operational challenges directly linked to paucity of funds. This 
problem is further compounded by the economic difficulties the 
nation has continued to contend. The down turn in the economy 
has diminished the relevance of the scheme.
Notwithstanding these challenges, the scheme through its 
programmes still serves as one of the most enduring institutions 
in postcolonial Nigeria. It is plausible to argue that though the 
security challenge hinders the effective implementation of the 
scheme's activities, the essential services corps members still 
render to the nation building project of the Nigerian state in the 
area of elections, education, health and other critical aspects of 
public and organised private sectors are germane to the socio-
economic well- being of the nation. This shows that the 
programmes of the scheme have gone beyond national 
integration of various ethnic groups to providing essential 
services to the critical sectors of the country's socio-economic 
fabric. The scheme has also contributed to the establishment and 
development of similar social institutions in places like the 
Gambia, thereby contributing to the development of no just that 
country, but Africa.
Conclusion
One may not be out of place to argue that the conception of the 
(NYSC) after the country's civil war in 1970 was an ingenious 
contraption to heal the wound created by the Nigerian civil war 
and to promote national unity in the country. The programmes 
instituted in the scheme conformed to the ideological 
underpinnings of NYSC as espoused by the founding fathers. 
The scheme rested on three major pillars – orientation, primary 
assignment and CDS. The challenges which confronted the 
schemehave been met with adequate response, ensuring its 
survival over the years. The problems of ethnic divisions and 
insecurity across Nigeria's territorial boundaries underscore the 
relevance of the NYSC scheme. Against the call for the complete 
PROGRAMMES AND ACTIVITIES OF NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS 185
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

abandonment of the programme, it is plausible to contend that 
the overstretching of the scheme's capacity in pursuing its 
objectives beyond what was espoused in 1973 under the present 
circumstances of the Nigerian state calls for greater recognition 
and adaptation of the scheme to the country's nation building 
project through comprehensive reforms and sweeping changes 
to enhance its effectiveness.
By implication, these programmes contributed greatly to 
healing the wounds which the civil war brought upon the nation 
at least, during the first decade of the existence of the scheme. 
This, to an extent, conformed to the ideological underpinnings of 
NYSC as espoused by the founding fathers. However, the 
challenges which confronted the Nigerian state after the first 
decade of the scheme's existence necessitated its institutional 
response through various policies and programmes which to an 
extent, surmounted these challenges. As the Nigerian state 
continued to grapple with the challenges of ethnic divisions and 
insecurity across its territorial boundaries, the impact of the 
scheme's programmes and activities became saturated and this 
intensified the calls for its obliteration. 
It should be noted that the overstretching of the scheme's 
programme has not completely made it irrelevant to the nation 
building project of the Nigerian state, on the contrary, the 
scheme has been able to respond to the country's nation building 
demands beyond cultural integration of various groups that 
make up the nation. The reason why the calls for the scheme's 
obliteration have been intensified in recent years is due to the 
limited objectives of cultural unity which the founding fathers of 
the scheme espoused at its formation. The founding fathers did 
not envisage the myriad of challenges currently confronting the 
Nigerian state at the formation of the scheme in 1973. It may not 
be out of place tocontend that the overstretching of the scheme's 
capacity in pursuing its objectives beyond what was espoused in 
1973 under the present circumstances of the Nigerian state calls 
for greater recognition and importance of the scheme to the 
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020186
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

country's nation building project through a comprehensive 
reform and sweeping changes than the complete abandonment 
of it.
References 
Primary Sources 
Table 4: Interviews
Government Publications
Government Publication as extracted from NYSC Archives, 
Abuja on the Report on the Post-Orientation Course Service Year 
1973-74
Lagos: National Youth Service Corps Cabinet Office, Lagos, 1974 
Anon: Mobilization of Corps Members for Community 
Development NYSCth 
Year Book 20 Anniversary Edition, 1973-1993.
Kila F. 1980. '' Youth Mobilization for National Development: The 
Tanzanian Experience'' in National Service for the 80s 
Report on the Proceedings of the Workshop on the 
PROGRAMMES AND ACTIVITIES OF NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS 187
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps Scheme Kano, Kano State. th th 
26 -28 May, 1980
Obasa, P.K. 1980. ' The Concept of Motivating the Youths' in 
National Service for the 80s Report on the Proceedings of 
the Workshop on the National Youth Service Corps th th 
Scheme Kano, Kano State. 26 -28 May, 1980
Olomajeye, J. 1980. ''The National Youth Service Scheme and the 
Fourth National Development Plan'' in National Service for 
the 80s Report on the Proceedings of the Workshop on the 
National Youth Service Corps Scheme Kano, Kano State. th th 
26 -28 May, 1980
See Handbook for Corps Members on Teaching Assignments 
Orientation Lecture Series 1980-1984 as extracted from 
NYSC Archives Abuja.
NYSC Year Book 1991 as extracted from NYSC Archives 
Directorate Headquarters, Abuja Lagos: Gbajumo 
Publishing Company Limited
Document on Housing Policy of National Youth Service Corps 
as extracted from the NYSC Archives, Abuja. Abuja: 
Personnel Management Department NYSC Directorate 
Headquarters, Abuja, 1992
National Youth Service Corps Inspectors Manual as extracted 
from the NYSC Archives, Abuja. Abuja: Corps 
Inspectorate Department, National Directorate 
Headquarters, Abuja, 1998
General Policy Guideline for NYSC Orientation Courses as 
Prepared by Planning Research and Statistics Department, 
Directorate Headquarters, AbujaOnwudiwe E and Dart 
Chloe-Berwin. 2010. Breaking the Cycle of Electoral Violence 
in Nigeria Special Report of United States Institutes of 
Peace
Composite Policy Document of NYSC Directorate 
Headquarters, Abuja, 2013th 
NYSC Year Book 45 Anniversary Commemorative Edition 
Abuja: National Directorate Headquarters and Drprint 
Limited, 2018.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020188
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Newspaper Publications
Anon: UK MPs to See Gowon, Daily Times of December 20, 1968 
Anon: Shephered Tells UK House of Lords Daily Times of 
February,1969 rd
Anon: Wilson Ends Final Talks New Nigerian of March 3 , 1969 
Anon: Ojukwu Turned Down Wilson's Invitation Daily st
Sketch of 1 April, 1969 nd 
Anon: Wilson's Second Note to Ojukwu New Nigerian of 2
April, 1969 rd 
Anon: Wilson Report Back to Commons Morning Post of 3 April, 
1969
Thomas, D. NYSC: Time for Another Reflection  The Punch of 
Thursday September 24, 1986
Osuola, J.O. Social Mobilization and Mass Poverty The Punch, 
Thursday, August 20, 1987
Joseph, O. Military's Legacy is Unity: Sunday Times of October 20, 
1991
Secondary Sources:
Books
Agu, U. 1995. NYSC and the Nigerian Unity A Critical Appraisal 
Enugu: Acena Publishers
Amos, O. 2002.NYSC Priority Redefined Okigwe: Jane-Mos 
CommunicationsAnon: NYSC Year Book 1991 as 
extracted from NYSC Archives Directorate 
Headquarters, Abuja Lagos: Gbajumo Publishing 
Company Limited
Asein, S.O. 1993. Call to Service Twenty Years of the National Youth 
Service Corps Scheme 19731993 Ibadan: Sam Bookman
Awolowo, O. Path to Nigerian Freedom London
Enegwea G and Umoden, G. 1993. NYSC: Twenty Years of 
National Service Abuja and Lagos: National Youth Service 
Corps Directorate Headquarters and Gbajumo Publishing 
Company Limited, 1993.
Fafowora, O. 1990. Pressure Group and Foreign Policy A 
Comparative Study of the British Attitudes and Policy Towards 
Secessionist Moves in Congo (1960-1963) and Nigeria (1966-
PROGRAMMES AND ACTIVITIES OF NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS 189
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

1969) Ibadan: Heinemann Educational Books Limited.
Itumo, V.N. 2003.NYSC, Corps Members: The Hope of the Nation A 
Book on NYSC, Youths and Nation Building Abuja: Kaylon 
International Limited
Momoh H.B. 1992. Imperatives of National Service in the 90s. A 
Collection of Speeches Vol. 1 Abuja: National Directorate 
Headquarters National Youth Service Corps.
Obasa, P.K. 1995. NYSC A Nation's Attempt at Mobilizing the 
Youths
Ilorin: Market Development Service Limited.
Okhaikhabor, A. 2002. NYSC Priority Redefined Okigwe: jane-
mos Communication A Division of Softlinks Organisation
Sklar, R.L. 1963. As Extracted from Fafowora, O. Pressure Group 
and Foreign Policy A Comparative Study of the British 
Attitudes and Policy Towards Secessionist Moves in Congo 
(1960-1963) and Nigeria (1966-1969) Ibadan: Heinemann 
Educational Books Limited, Nigerian Political Parties 
Princeton: N.J. Princeton University Press.
Edited Works
Emanako, G.E Ed. 1986. 12 Years of National Youth Service Corps 
inNigeria, 1973-1985 Lagos: National Youth Service Corps 
Directorate Headquarters. Book extracted from NYSC 
Directorate Archives, Abuja.
Fwatshak , S.U and Ayuba, J.M. 2014. 'Amalgamation 
Discourses in the ''Lugardian House'' During Nigeria's 
First Centenary'
S.U. Fwatshak and O. Akinwumi Eds. The House that ''Lugard 
Built'' Perspectives on Nigeria's First Centenary: The Pains, 
the Gains and the Agenda for the Future Jos: Historical Society 
of Nigeria and Jos University Press Limited.
Okoro, I. 2014. 'Ndi Igbo of the South-East: Centenary Glimpses'
S.U. Fwatshak and O. Akinwumi Eds. The House that 'Lugard 
Built' Perspectives on Nigeria's First Centenary: The Pains, the 
Gains and the Agenda for the Future Jos: Jos University Press.
Olukoshi, A. 1995.'The Political Economy of Structural 
Adjustment Programme' in S. Adejumobi and A. Momoh. 
Eds. The Political Economy of Nigeria under Military Rule, 
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020190
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

1984-1993 Harare: Civil Liberty Organisation.
Journal Articles
Ayodele, S. Aborisade (now Abolorunde). 2018. 'Nigeria's 
Foreign Reserves and the Challenges of Development, 
1960-2010' West Bohemian Historical Review Vol. VIII 
No1.2018.
Ayodele, S. Abolorunde. 2019. 'Nigerian Civil War and Britain's 
Peace Initiative, 1967-1970' West Bohemian Historical Review 
Vol. IX No 1 2019.
Aliyu M. Kastina .2012. 'Nigeria's Security Challenges and Crisis 
of Development Towards a New Framework for Analysis' 
International Journal of Developing Societies Vol.1, No3, 2012.
Chukwuemeka Okafor and Johnmary, K. Ani. 2014. 'The 
National Youth Service Corps Programme and Growing 
Security Threat in Nigeria' Africa's Public Service Delivery 
and Performance Review Vol. 2. No.2, 2014.
Chukwuemeka Okafor. 2018. 'Dysfunctional Public 
Administrationin an Era Increasing Public Service 
Delivery Expectations: A Puncture to Nation Building 
Efforts' Journal of Nation Building and Policy Studies Vol.2. 
No. 1, June, 2018.
Johah Onuoha and Michael U. Ikechukwu. 2014. 'Political 
Scientists and Nation Building: The Nigerian Experience' 
International Journal of Social Sciences and Humanities 
Research Vol.2. Issue 4.
Olakunle Olowojolu, Bamidele Rasak, Modupe O. Ake and 
Magdalene. 2019. 'Trends in Electoral Violence in Nigeria' 
Journal of Social Sciences and Public Policy Vol.11 No1, 2019.
Prince, O. Nweke and Stephen, T. Nwachukwu. 2014.'National 
Security Issues and Challenges in Nigeria: Which Way 
Forward' International Journal of Youth Empowerment and 
Entrepreneurship Development Vol. 8, 2014.
R.L Sklar. 1965. As Extracted from Fafowora, O. Pressure Group 
and Foreign Policy A Comparative Study of the British 
Attitudes and Policy Towards Secessionist Moves in Congo 
(1960-1963) and Nigeria (1966-1969) Ibadan: Heinemann 
Educational Books Limited, 'Contradictions in Nigerian 
PROGRAMMES AND ACTIVITIES OF NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS 191
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Political System' Journal of Modern African Studies Vol.3, 
No.2, 1965
Timothy Onimisi . 2015.The Prognosis of the 2011 Electoral 
Violence in Nigeria and the Lessonss for the Future' 
Mediterranean Journal of Social Sciences Vol.6 No.1, 2015
Unpublished Works
Alesina, A. Reich, B and Bocconi, I. 2015. Nation Building Being an 
Unpublished Work
Ojo, F. 1977. Evaluation Report on Four Years of the National Youth 
Service Corps Scheme as documented by National Youth 
Service Corps Directorate Headquarters Lagos, p.11. 
Report Retrieved from the NYSC Directorates' Archives 
Abuja.
Agunbiade, S.A. 1993. The National Youth Service Corps: A 
Challengeto Government, Youths and the Nigerian Society A 
Study for the Nigerian Institute of Social and Economic 
Research NISER, Ibadan, Ibadan Nigeria
Onwere, C. 1992. National Youth Service Corps Programme and 
National Integration in Nigeria , Being a PhD Submitted to 
the Department of International and Comparative 
Education Institute of Education, University of London
Odeh, G.O. 2019. The Gambia's NYSS Partnership with 
International Organisation for Migration (IOM): Lessons for 
Nigeria's NYSC Scheme in the Twenty First Century Being a 
Paper Presented at the Conference Organized by the 
University of Texas at Austin. The Paper was also 
Presented at Conference on Culture, Politics and 
Contemporary Issues in the Gambia Held at Paradise Suit 
Hotel, 3 Paradise Beach Place, off Berting Harding th th 
Highway (Kololi), Banjul, the Gambia, 14 -15 December, 
2019
Internet Source
Dinnen, S. 2006. Technical Report of Nation Building on State 
Fragility in Melanesia Retrieved from the Website of th 
ResearchGate on the 29 of September, 2020.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020192
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Chapter Eight
GROUPS AND SOCIETIES IN THE NYSC 
SCHEME
Umar Aminu Yandaki 
Department of History, 
UthmanFodio University, 
Sokoto
Introduction
Often viewed as an embodiment of a myriad technical and 
bureaucratic frameworks within which Nigerian 
youths/graduates are trained to be disciplined, self-reliant and 
patriotic, the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) scheme is 
not limitedly a herald of the country's national unity. It also 
symbolises Nigeria's national development project. The four 
cardinal programmes of the scheme's annual national service – 
i.e. Orientation, Primary Assignment, Community 
Development Service (CDS) and Winding Up and Passing Out – 
accentuate this; because, although marked by different priorities 
and agendas, they all have national 'unity' and 'development' as 1
their common thread. Interestingly, throughout the one year 
mandatory national service scheme, the corps members' groups 
and societies are the only powerful platforms that consistently 
draw NYSC's 'unity' and 'development' ideals together. This 
chapter offers a critical assessment of the essentials of the corps 
members' groups and societies that operate under the aegis of 
the NYSC scheme. It holds that beyond the three readily 
noticeable annual programmes of the NYSC, i.e. orientation and 
camping, primary assignment and winding up and passing 
1 
This is intelligible at least in the context of Arubayi's explanation of the NYSC and its four 
cardinal programmes. See D. O. Arubayi (2015), “Youths in Development: Understanding 
the Contributions of National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) to Nigeria's National 
Development”, PhD Thesis, University of Manchester, pp. 83-91.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

2
out, corps members' CDS groups and religious societies 
constitute the strategic platforms that reinforce NYSC's 
unification ideals and animate the scheme as a development 
model through their direct engagement with the wider society.
Of course, quite important in imbuing them with the ideals 
of discipline and self-reliance, the drilling and regimentation 
that the corps members undergo during orientation, plus the 
theater for initiating cultural blending provided by the 
orientation camp, only last for three weeks. As for the primary 
assignment, it randomly distributes corps members across 
various working places and could keep most of them so busy to 
even contemplate reunion among themselves or with the NYSC 
officials after the orientation period. The winding up and 
passing out activities only reunite the corps members and the 
NYSC staff for few days, during which they would be 3
permanently retiring from the scheme. Most importantly, 
however, within the service year, the corps members' groups 
and societies provide platforms for continuity and sustenance of 
the connectivity among the corps members and between them 
and the NYSC officials, bound by the sole aim of achieving 
common national goals. For example, it is only the approved 
CDS groups (some of which are classified within the spectrum of 
'clubs'),that provide 'national' platforms on which corps 
members from diverse ethnic and religious background meet 
weekly under the supervision of NYSC officials – such as Zonal 
Inspectors (ZIs), Local Inspectors (LIs) and CDS Schedule 
Officers – to deliberate and work together on issues concerning 
national development: not only are development projects 
communally undertaken by the corps members throughout the 
nooks and crannies of the country, but NYSC ideals are also 
consistently maintained through the constituency of these CDS 
groups. 
2 
The NYSC scheme is widely reputed for these three annual programmes because the 
activities of corps members' groups and societies within the society are often considered 
performed by the 'corps members' rather than their specific groups and societies. Careful 
observation reveals such.3
Ibid.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020194
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Additionally, under the agency of the three approved religious 
societies – also known as 'associations' – corps members of 
different ethnic and regional backgrounds consistently unite 
under the supervision of NYSC officials to pursue common 
religious aspirations.
Essentially, corps members' groups and societies constitute 
the major framework within which the NYSC scheme is 
sustained after orientation camping. Apart from the corps 
members' CDS groups and religious societies, the NYSC scheme 
does not have any other long term sustainable programme or 
strategy that keeps the corps members together or also keep 
them keenly aligned to NYSC office/officials in order to achieve 
common national goals. These groups and societies, particularly 
the CDS groups, provide platforms that reduce the rather high 
and not easily controllable population of corps members into 
manageable categories, which – throughout the service year – 
ensure consistency in terms of collaboration and commitment to 
peaceful coexistence, unity and national development. These in 
turn constitute the raison d'être behind the establishment of the 
NYSC scheme by the Nigerian Military Government under 
General Yakubu Gowon in 1973 as part of the post-civil war 
reconciliation programmes that followed the end of the Nigerian 
Civil War in 1970.
To be sure, despite their importance, the corps members' 
groups and societies are grossly understudied. They are poorly 
perceived by the general society, and their purposes scarcely 4 
understood even among the corps members. Consequently, 
with examples drawn from various parts of Nigeria, this chapter 
offers an empirically grounded discourse on the nature, 
activities and impact of corps members' groups and societies. 
However, the following section briefly reviews the NYSC as a 
national service scheme in Nigeria. 
4 
National Youth Service Corps (2014), ABC of Community Development and Special 
Project Department, Abuja, National Youth Service Directorate Headquarters, p. 3.
GROUPS AND SOCIETIES IN THE NYSC SCHEME 195
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Nigerian NYSC Scheme
NYSC is an agency under the Nigerian Federal Ministry of 
Youths and Sports, which mobilises Nigerian youths for 5
national service. Broadly viewed, national service is itself, “an 
organised period of substantial engagement and contribution to 
local, national or world community, recognised and valued by 
the society with minimal monetary compensation to the 6 
participant”. The philosophy behind the establishment of the 
NYSC, as well as the national service it manages, is deeply 
rooted in the need to solve the contradictions shrouding the 
Nigerian federal system. Such contradictions could be best 
understood when the history of societal composition and 
administrative structure of Nigeria are reviewed. A federal 
State, Nigeria is comprised of thirty-six states and the federal 
capital territory, Abuja. These are in turn, made up of seven 
hundred and seventy-four local government areas (LGAs). Even 
then, Nigeria – the most populous country in Africa with a 
population of over 170 million people –is profusely pluralistic: it 
has over two hundred and fifty ethnicities, with Hausa-Fulani, 
Yoruba and Igbo as the majors. There are also ethnic minorities, 
mainly found in the Middle Belt areas of northern Nigeria and 
the Niger Delta region of the south. Being the products of 
protracted historical processes, these ethnicities, in varying 
formations and degrees, made up several autonomous political 
units at various times during the pre-colonial period (the period 7
up to 1900).
Although, history has acknowledged interrelations among 
the various ethnicities that existed in the Nigerian area during 
the pre- colonial period, it also acknowledged the wide cultural 
5 st 
Interview with Abdulwahab Lawal Rafindadi (1 Sept, 2020), ex-corps member & 
former president of Road Safety CDS Group, at Rafindadi Primary School, Katsina State.6 
Sherraden cited in G. O. Oneh (2018), “NYSC's Engagement in the Development of 
Abuja, 1982-2011", Rima International Journal of Historical Studies, Vol. 1, No. 1.7 
S. Suleiman (2015), “The Nigerian History Machine and the Production of Middle Belt 
Historiography”. PhD Thesis, Dept. of Historical Studies, University of Cape Town, pp. 
11- 12.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020196
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

8 
differences among some of them. These cultural variations were 
in some instances furthered, and in others cemented, by the 
religious mapping of the ethnic groups in the Nigerian area, 
which was largely influenced by the history of their respective 9
contacts with the wider world. As such, while the northern part 
of the country houses a predominantly Muslim population, with 
a considerable population of Christians in its Middle Belt region, 
the South-East and Niger Delta are predominantly Christians; 
and the South-West, mainly Muslims and Christians. There 
were, however, pockets of traditional religions adept 10
throughout the Nigerian area. Despite the long history of 
interrelations among these ethnicities, the first instance of their 
assemblage to make up the federal political entity known as 
Nigeria was a British colonial initiative. It was a colonial project 
that was initiated in the 1880s, which having undergone a series 
of amalgamations, eventually matured in 1914, when the wide 
range of the areas/autonomous political units that made up the 
present Nigerian State were finally amalgamated to establish the 
colonial entity of Nigeria. Following the amalgamations, the 
colonial administrators artificially divided Nigeria into 
provinces, each administered by a Resident Officer. Here, with 
8 
While there was a long history of interactions among Nigerian ethnicities to the extent that 
some of them share linguistic analogies, e.g. the Hausa and Fulani of Northern Nigeria, there 
were some others that were culturally unrelated. A good example could be cited with Hausa/ 
Igbo ethnic groups. See O. Akinwunmi et. al. (eds.) (2006), Inter-Group Relations in Nigeria th  th 
During the 19 and 20 Centuries, Markurdi, Aboki Publishers.9 
Coming from the Middle East through North Africa, Islam appeared among various 
ethnicities in parts of northern Nigeria, particularly Borno and Hausaland since around the th   
11 Century. It continued to expand over the centuries and became well established after the 
successful execution of the Islamic Revolution led by Shehu Usman Danfodiyo, and the th 
establishment of the Sokoto Caliphate in the 19 Century. At its peak, Islam reached up to 
some parts of Yorubaland. Its present was, however limited among the various ethnicities in 
the Middle Belt area. As for Christianity, it came to dominate most of Southern Nigeria and 
the Middle Belt area as a result of missionary activities, spreading to the hinterland from the th 
coastal areas, starting from the late 19 Century. While religious differences accentuated the 
already existing cultural differences among some ethnic groups, it became an umbrella under 
which some others became assembled. For example, “The Middle Belt”, observed Suleiman, 
“is one of the areas of greatest cultural and linguistic diversity in the whole West Africa… in 
the absence of a strong history of cohesion, the non-Muslim communities resorted to religion 
in search of a common cultural denominator”. See S. Suleiman (2012), “Exhuming Passions: 
Religion and the Emergence of the Middle Belt Struggle in Nigeria”, Annual Review of Islam in 
Africa, Isssue No. 11, p. 21.10 
See S. Suleiman (2015), “The Nigerian History Machine…, pp. 12-14.
GROUPS AND SOCIETIES IN THE NYSC SCHEME 197
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

little regard to the pre-colonial social, religious and political 
formations, the various ethnicities were incorporated into the 11 
new colonial administrative superstructure. Impliedly, many 
ethnicities were cruelly dislocated, “leaving some of the people 12
on one side, some on the other”. Indeed, as Suleiman rightly 
posited,
The foundations of the contradictions in Nigeria's 
federal system were laid during the colonial period 
through various arbitrary practices and regimes of 
governance and geography, which accentuated 
cultural differences, and entrench communal 13
cleavages.
Having realised the toxicity of these administrative and 
geographic reshufflings wither Nigerian cultural diversity, the 
colonial State in Nigeria strove to salvage the situation through 
the introduction of a regional system of government in 1946. The 
introduction of the quasi-federal structure, which saw the 
establishment of the Northern, Western and Eastern Regions, 
was aimed at promoting national unity and providing 
opportunity for the individual units to pursue their separate 
14 
cultural aspirations. Unfortunately, however, the situation was 
only worsened. Eventually, it was the unhealthy regional 
politics of federalism that followed independence, coupled with 
the existing contradictions in the quasi-federal system – marked 
by mutual ethic and regional distrusts – that fuelled the January 
and July 1966 Military Coups in Nigeria. These subsequently 
threw the nation into thirty months Civil War, which began in 
1967, only to end in 1970. Not only did the civil war cost people's 
lives and properties, it echoed multiple versions prejudicial 
narratives of dissent, which the various ethnicities and regions 
11
Ibid, p. 15.12 
Madani quoted, Ibid, p. 15.13
Ibid. 14
Ibid.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020198
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

15
use to traduce one another.
Following the civil war, therefore, the Nigerian Military 
Government under General Yakubu Gowon established the 
NYSC scheme as part of its reconciliation policy, not only to 
achieve peaceful coexistence and unity, but also overall national 
development. The scheme identified the educated youths of the 
nation as its focus for mobilisation, realising that such youths 
constitute the most viable channels of human rehabilitation, 
16
social reconstruction and national reconciliation. The objectives 
of the scheme are better expressed by the decree that established 
it – the National Youths Service Corps Decree (No. 24), 1973 – 
which stated as follows:
a) To inculcate discipline in Nigerian youths by instilling in 
them a tradition of industry at work, and, of patriotic and 
loyal service to the nation in any situation they may find 
themselves;
b) To raise their moral tone by giving them the opportunity to 
learn about higher ideals of national achievement and social 
and cultural improvement;
c) To develop in them attitudes of mind, acquired through 
shared experience and suitable training, which will make 
them more amenable to mobilisation in the national interest;
d) To develop common ties among them to promote national 
unity by ensuring that –
i. As far as possible, youths are assigned to jobs in States other 
than their States of origin;
ii. Each group, assigned to work together, is a representative of 
the country as possible;
e) To encourage members of the service corps to seek, at the 
end of their corps service, career employment all over the 
country thus promoting the free movement of labour;
15 
See U. Faruk (2011), The Victors and the Vanquished of the Nigerian Civil War, 1967-
1970: Triumph and Valour over Greed and Ambition, Zaria, ABU Press.16   
N. Ikharo (24-02-1994), “NYSC and National Development”, The Triumph.
GROUPS AND SOCIETIES IN THE NYSC SCHEME 199
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

f) To induce employers, partly through their experience with 
members of the service corps, to employ more readily 
qualified Nigerians irrespective of their States of origin; and 
g) To enable Nigerian youths to acquire the spirit of self- 
17
reliance.
Indeed, for about five decades of its existence, the NYSC as 
an institution has been running national service programme in 
line with these and other related objectives, subsequently 
constituted by Decree No. 51 of 1993 which revised the 1973 
18 
Decree, and the NYSC Act, Cap.-84 of 2004. The policy and 
decisions governing of the NYSC are formulated and enforced 
by the National Directorate and the various State Committees. In 
fact, from inception in 1973, it was the National Directorate of the 
NYSC that took the responsibility of designing the scheme's 
annual national service programmes of training and schedules, 
which were structured for achieving the objectives of the 
19 
NYSC. Headed by a Director General, the fairly staffed and well 
departmentalised National Directorate is supported by the State 
Committees, which are available in all States across the country. 
The State Committees, in turn, operate under the leadership of 
their respective State Coordinators who head other supporting 
departments and staff. As an institution, with a well-structured 
system of administration and staffing, the NYSC ensures that 
from mobilisation to passing out, its national service annual 
programmes and schedules, which are centrally designed by the 
National Directorate are strictly adhered to throughout the 
country. It also maintains regular contact with universities and 
colleges, manage corps members' activities throughout service 
20
year and assess the progress of the scheme from time to time.
17  
National Archives Kaduna (1973) CSA/OFF/148, “National Youth Service Corps”.18 
D. O. Arubayi (2015), “Youths in Development, pp. 83-84.19  
National Archives Kaduna (1973) CSA/OFF/148…20  
National Archives Kaduna (1973) CSA/OFF/148…
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020200
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The national service programme under the NYSC operates 
as a one year mandatory programme that mobilises Nigerian 
youths who graduated from universities and polytechnics 21
within and outside Nigeria; it is a critical 'transitional period' 
during which such graduates are posted to States other than 
their States of origin where they, hopefully, unlearn the 
prejudicial stereotypes they must have learnt about other parts 
of the country, embrace patriotism and a spirit of national 22
development. Among the scheme's targets for mobilisation, 
graduates who are military/ paramilitary personnel, or above 
the age of thirty years are exempted: the latter clarifies the 
programme's concept of 'youths' as graduates below the age of 
thirty years. Once they are mobilised, these graduates are until 
the end of the programme known as corps members. The NYSC 
through the instrumentality of its officials usually guide the 
corps members through most of the established national service 
programmes' trainings and schedules, which are carried out 
annually. Indeed, since the end of the 1972/1973 academic 
session, NYSC has been mobilising youths for national service 23
following the completion of every academic session. While the 
scheme mobilised about 2,000 corps members nationwide in 
1973, the number increased dramatically to about 85,000 in 1999 24 
and 297,293 in 2017. Resulting from the gradual increase in the 
number of graduates produced annually, the programme now 
mobilises youths in different batches every year. These batches 
are usually classified as Batch A, Batch B and Batch C, 25 
sometimes, each batch further divided into two streams.
Throughout the service  year, the major activities undertaken by 
21 
G. O. Oneh (2018), “NYSC's Engagement in the Development of Abuja…, p. 143. 22
National Youth Service Corps (August, 2006), “Has NYSC Achieved Its Objectives? - 
Interview with Mary Dan-Abia, the State Coordinator of NYSC, Abia State”, Abiakopa – 
End of Service Year Magazine of NYSC Abia State – Batch B 2005, Vol. 2, No. 8, p. 10.23    
National Archives Kaduna (1973) CSA/OFF/148…24 
F. Alo (2018), “Retooling Nigeria's Youth Service Corps to Drive National 
Transformation”, https://gga.org/retooling-nigeria's-youth-service-corps-to-drive-
national-transformation/25 th 
Interview with Badmus Oluwasegun (4 Sept. 2020), Serving Corps Member & NYSC 
Liason Officer for Dala LGA, at NYSC Secretariat, Dala LGA, Kano State.
GROUPS AND SOCIETIES IN THE NYSC SCHEME 201
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

the corps members summate the four cardinal programmes of 
the scheme.
These cardinal programmes, as mentioned earlier, are 
Orientation, Primary Assignment, Secondary Assignment/ 
CDS and Winding up and Passing Out. The orientation comes 
first. Immediately after the calling-up of prospective corps 
members and their deployment to different States across the 
country, orientation engages them for three weeks camping, 
during which a plethora of activities, ranging from lectures, 
regimental drills/ trainings, exercises, social activities as well as 
other important initiation rituals that prepare corps members 26 
ahead of the national service are performed. This is followed by 
the Primary Assignment, which ensures the deployment of 
corps members to various government departments, statutory 
corporations, schools, hospitals, private sectors, etc. to work for 
national service, for a period of about eleven months. The 
Primary Assignment randomly distributes corps members to 
various local government areas within the State they are posted, 
including the remotest areas – invariably referred to as host 27
communities.
Following this is the Secondary Assignment, otherwise 
known as CDS. It operates on dual planes: personal CDS and 
group CDS. While the former provides corps members the 
opportunity to identify and execute community development 
projects on personal basis (optional); the latter is, however, 
compulsory. Every corps member must belong to one of the 
approved CDS groups under the constituency of which 
consistent collaborations and commitments among the corps 
members and between them and the NYSC officials are 
maintained for common national purposes. CDS, which is also 
undertaken for most part of the service year, ensures the 
consideration and provision of community development 
projects by the corps members for the benefit of their host 28 
communities. The Winding up and Passing Out programme 
26 
See D. O. Arubayi (2015), “Youths in Development., pp. 87-89.27
Ibid, p. 90.28
Ibid, pp. 90-91.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020202
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

marks the final phase/stage of the NYSC scheme. It engages 
assessment of corps members' performances in Primary 
Assignment and CDS. It also engages the release of passing-out 
corps members by their various primary assignment employers, 
clearing of corps members by the NYSC, the passing-out 
ceremony and the issuing of NYSC discharge certificates to 29
successful corps members.
Beside these cardinal programmes, there are other 
supporting programmes stimulating the operation of the NYSC. 
Among them is the monthly clearance of corps members by their 
respective Places of Primary Assignments (PPA) and CDS 
groups' Schedule officers, which is followed by the monthly 
clearance by their respective Lis. While the former is done to 
ensure that corps members have discharge their monthly duties, 
the latter okays the corps members for the collection of their 
monthly stipend/ allowance. Others are the activities of the 
Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Department, 30 
beginning from 2012 and those of the NYSC religious 
societies/associations. The next section discusses the ideas of 
Corps Members' Groups and Societies and their modes of 
operations.
Corps Members' Groups and Societies
Multiple CDS groups and three approved religious societies 
presently exist and operate within the NYSC scheme. The stance 
and activities of these groups and societies was considerably 
shaped by the general conditions prevailing in Nigeria at the 
establishment of the NYSC in the 1970s, as well as other social 
changes that ensued to date. The NYSC was established at a 
critical time in Nigeria's history. The civil war had just ended; 
and having suffered a rough interlude – killing, displacing and 
destabilising millions of people – the post-war period ushered in 
a time of intense need. There was an intense need for 
29 st   
Ibid. p. 91. See also, NYSC (21 Sept. 2020) NYSC/DHQ/PRs/DIR/CIR/STATE/VOL. II/
, “2019 Batch 'C', Stream 1, Winding-Up/ Passing-Out: Approved Activities and Programme.30 
See     www.nysc.gov.ng/saed.html.
GROUPS AND SOCIETIES IN THE NYSC SCHEME 203
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

reunification and reconstruction; as well as the need for 
development, just as was the case before the war. In this 
parlance, the intellectuals – particularly historians – continued 
to preach the gospel of 'unity for national development', and 
from this period, studies on inter- group relations began in 31 
earnest. Even the once headstrong Federal Military 
Government began to use soft-power to establish and maintain 
proper reunification and reconstruction. It is, in fact, this 
strategy that birthed the NYSC scheme. Commencing the 
scheme with a CDS programme is, therefore, not surprising. So 
is the subsequent strategic bargain that endorsed the operation 
of religious associations within the scheme, beginning from the 
late 1970s and early 1980s. For the purpose of organisation, the 
chapter studies the activities of the CDS groupings and religious 
societies separately. It begins with the CS groups.
I. The CDS Groups
Designing NYSC's programme for annual training and 
schedules in 1973, the National Directorate of NYSC under its 
pioneer Director-General, Ahmadu Ali, crafted Community 32
Development Service as an important programme. The CDS, as 
it is presently known, operates in line with the framework of the 
'bottom-up' development approach, which suggests communal 
mobilisation of human and material resources to complement 
the activities of the government at various levels in the efforts 33 
towards national development. CDS obliges corps members to 
not only realise and harness their innovative potentials, but also 
empathise with the aboriginals of their host communities by 
identifying with the needs of such communities and 
collaborating with the members of the communities to plan and 
execute development projects and programmes for the 
31 th 
A. I. Yandaki (2011), “The Changing Nature of Nigerian History, 19 Century to the 
Present”, in S. B. Ahmad and I. K. Abdussalam, Resurgent Nigeria: Issues in Nigerian 
Intellectual History, Ibadan, Ibadan University Press, p.46.32 
Waziri Junaidu History and Culture Bureau (1973-1976) C/705/I/420/, “National 
Youths Service Corps”, pp. 1-3.33 
G. O. Oneh (2018), “NYSC's Engagement in the Development of Abuja…, p. 145.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020204
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

communities' benefits. From the inception of the NYSC scheme, 
however, the CDS has at different times undergone various 
adjustments and transformations. 
In the early years of NYSC's existence, the philosophy, 
organisational structure and modes of operation of the CDS 
were substantially different from what is obtainable in the recent 
times. In the 1970s and throughout the 1980s, CDS was variously 
referred to as 'community development work', 'community 34 
development activities' or 'community development projects'.
During those formative years of the NYSC, identifying the needs 
of the host communities and the projection of community 
development projects was not a domain of the corps members, 
as it is now. Host communities' needs were identified by the 
community development personnel under the various state 
governments across the country; and corps members were only 
grouped, deployed to various community development project 
sites and supervised by the appropriate NYSC and state 
governments' officials to work for specific durations earmarked 
for the CDS within the service year. Impliedly, the corps 
members' CDS groups were never substantive and specialised 
groups; they were less organised, strictly temporal, unnamed 
and their activities loosely defined. In line with NYSC's 
objectives, however, such groupings were as much as possible, 
representatives of the country's cultural and religious diversity. 
Also, CDS was only undertaken at two different times during 
the service year. In most instances, one week was set aside, out of 
the 4 weeks orientation course to perform CDS activities. In the 
latter parts of the service year, four weeks were earmarked for 35
the Easter CDS activities. To justify these assertions, examples 
are drawn from the North-Western State – the forerunner of the 
present Sokoto, Kebbi, Zamfara and Niger states – showing how 
CDS was operated during the 1973/74, 1974/ 75 and 1975/76 
service years, respectively. This is supported with examples 
from other parts of the country in the 1980s.
34 
This could be observed here: Waziri Junaidu History and Culture Bureau (1973-1976) 
C/ 705/I – Sokoto 1/52/420/, pp. 34-36, 56-58, 61, 81-85 and 95-101.35
Ibid.
GROUPS AND SOCIETIES IN THE NYSC SCHEME 205
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

As an annual routine, NYSC's national service operates in 
line with its programme for annual training and schedules. Just 
as other State Committees across the country, the NYSC State 
Committee for the North-Western state kicked off the national 
service activities in 1973 under the guidance of the programme 
for annual training and schedules, which spelt out the activities 
for that service year. While the programme placed 4 weeks, 42 
weeks and 2 weeks for orientation course, primary assignment 
and winding up respectively, it allocated 4 weeks to CDS. 
Nevertheless, within the period of orientation – which actually nd 
commenced on 2 July 1973 –five days were spared during 
which corps members were taken to CDS sites where they went 
through solo-survival schemes. This was done under the 
coordination of one Mr. G. R. Pillai, the day's Chief Community 36
Development Inspector. Also, towards the ending of the th st 
1973/74 service year, CDS was undertaken from 10 April to 1
May 1974. It was inaugurated by the state commissioner for th 
Community Development, Alhaji Ibrahim Agaie at Chafe, on 9
April, 1974. To perform the CDS activities, corps members were 
divided into groups, distributed across various localities under 
Sokoto, Argungu, Birnin Kebbi and Zuru Divisions. The CDS 
activities were coordinated by inspectors from NYSC; these 
include Mallam Hanafi Sa'adu, Alhaji Isyaku B. Kuta and Alhaji 
Sani Muh. Yeldu. The activities were supervised by the State's 37 
community development officers.
In the following service year, 1974/75, corps members – as 
done during the previous year – were assigned CDS tasks as part 
of their orientation course. During the orientation course, which rd th 
lasted for about four weeks from 3 August to 10 September 
1974, CDS tasks were performed within a period of one week, th th 
between 12 and 17 August 1974. During this year's orientation 
CDS, the corps members were divided into five groups. The first 
three groups which had 30 members each, worked at Gummi, 
Gusau and Binji; for the other two groups, each with 15 
36
Ibid, pp. 34-36.37
Ibid, pp.    56-58.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020206
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

members, they worked at Maru and Gwadabawa. During the 
period of the work, feeding and accommodation was made 
available for the corps members by the State, through the State's 
chairman of Area Development Board. The CDS projects were 
initiated and supervised by the State's Community 
Development Officers in various CDS sites' locations. th th 
Undertaken between 15 March and 15 April 1975, the end of 
service year CDS was carried out in 4 weeks. Corps members 
were categorised into six groups to perform the CDS tasks in 
Sokoto, Gusau, Birnin Kebbi, Bida, Kontagora and Minna. 
Transport and accommodation was provided for the corps 
members by the State. Moreover, corps members were given 
feeding allowances while at CDS sites. At the CDS sites, corps 
members worked from 9:00 am to 1:00 am daily, without break. 
As usual, the work was coordinated by NYSC inspectors and 
supervised by community development officers in charge of the 
various areas where the corps members were deployed to 38
work.
Moving to the next service year (1975/1976), CDS was, as 
usual, undertaken as part of the orientation course. Out of the 
period of the orientation course, one week was spared for CDS th rd 
between 18 and 23 August, 1975. For this service year's 
orientation CDS activities, corps members were taken to execute 
CDS projects at Gwadabawa, Bodinga and Yabo districts. The 
CDS works were undertaken under the supervision of 
community development officers. At Gwadabawa, it was 
supervised by Mallam Sule Dogondaji and Mallam Namadina 
Aliyu; at Bondinga, by Mal. Aliyu Gumbi and Lawali Gusau; 
and at Yabo, by Mallam Abubakar Bagudu and Mohammed 
Abubakar. As usual also, the end of the year CDS otherwise 
called Easter Community Development Projects were th 
undertaken for a period of about one month from April 5 to May st 39 
1 1976. During this service year however, more emphasis was 
38
Ibid, p. 85-88 and 95-101.39 
Waziri Junaidu History and Culture Bureau (1976) c/705 – Sokoto/1/52/421, 
“National Youth Service Corps”, pp. 146-147.
GROUPS AND SOCIETIES IN THE NYSC SCHEME 207
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

given on the active participation of beneficiary communities' 
village leaders, district and village heads and local organizations 
in further facilitating the projects. These host communities' 
stakeholders were saddled with the responsibility of organising 
full scale participation of community in executing the projects, 40
and to remain readily helpful at the projects sites.
More like a loose and tortuous programme, assembled and 
intersected by institutional analogies, the CDS – throughout the 
1980s – continued to operate as an established and closely 
coordinated NYSC programme, whose modes of operations 
dances to the tunes of the various state governments' conception 
of the CDS and commitment towards it, as well as the 
community development projects needs during each service 
year. “When we served in the late 1980s, there were no 
established substantive CDS groups as there are now; after some 
community development projects were identified, time was 41
spared for us to go and undertake such projects” , confirmed, an 
informant who served at Katsina Ala, Benue State during the 
1986/87 service year. In the 1970s and 1980s, the CDS, its 
groupings and general activities were perhaps a reflection of the 
multiple institutional development challenges – including the 
possible lack of adequate staffing – that NYSC grappled with at 
its formative stage.
But the decade from 1990 to 2000 served as a turning point in 
the history of NYSC's CDS programme. This 'transitioning' 
decade offered a round of new challenges that compelled the 
NYSC scheme to buckle down to effectively contribute its quota 
in meeting the limitless aspirations Nigerians had for the new 
millennium. As the global atmosphere was changing, 
continuously reechoing liberalism, democracy and good 
governance; accompanied by unprecedented technological 
advancements and opening of new frontiers in public 
discourses, – such as human rights, women's issues, 
40
Ibid.41 th 
Interview with Umar M. Jabbi (17 Sept. 2020), an ex-corps member who served at 
Katsina Ala, Benue State in 1987, at Department of History, UDU Sokoto.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020208
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

environmental conservation, demographic management, etc. 
–Nigerians' expectations for development swelled up. Added to 
these pull factors were the enormous hardships Nigerians were 
facing as part of the consequences of the Structural Adjustment 
Programme of the mid-1980s, which was ruinously taking its toll 
on the people, as well as other divisive forces that were terribly 
testing national unity; these included the persistence of public 
outcry, stirred by the 'June 12' incident and Ken Saro Wiwa's call 42
for an independent Ogboniland. Readjusting the CDS to 
overcome the new challenges, the NYSC began to review and 
reorganise the nature and operations of the CDS, beginning from 
the early 1990s. In fact, the whole scheme was revised by the th 43
NYSC Decree No. 51 of 16 June 1993. As for the CDS, well 
defined objectives were spelt out. Recently, the general 
objectives of the CDS are as follows:
1. Impacting positively on the improvement of rural 
community life.
2. Developing the spirit of entrepreneurship in the corps 
members.
3. To utilise the challenges which rural development poses and 
inculcate in the Nigerian Youth the ideals and capacities for 
leadership, endurance, selflessness, community service, 
national service, patriotism and creativity.
4. Exposing corps members to diverse traditions and customs 
of the host communities.
5. Providing the forum for corps members to experiment with 
ideas and translate them into concrete achievements thereby 
relying less on foreign technology and encouraging the use 
of local raw materials in the execution of projects.
6 Harnessing the enormous talents and skills of corps 
members into an effective machinery of change in our rural 
communities. 
42  
A. I. Yandaki (1999), “Corruption and Failure of Democratic Rule in Nigeria: A Case 
Study of a Muslim Religious Group's Responses to the Situation”, Being A Paper 
Presentation at the 1999 Annual Religious Studies Conference, organized by the 
Department of Religious Studies, University of Ibadan, p. 4.43 
F. Alo (2018), “Retooling Nigeria's Youth Service Corps…
GROUPS AND SOCIETIES IN THE NYSC SCHEME 209
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

7. Providing on-the-job training and experience for corps 
members.
8. Providing complementary service in our National 
development activities, by ensuring that our under- 
privileged population learns basic techniques for self-help 
through the appropriate technology concept being 
promoted by NYSC.
9. To instill in corps members' the tradition of dignity of labour 
and productivity.
10. To complement the activities of government at all levels in 44
the stride towards national development.
In the same parlance, from the 1990s, the restructuring of the 
CDS ensued, with various reshufflings and add-ups at different 
times to meet-up with different demands. The earliest evidence 
of the beginning of the restructuring of the CDS activities was in 
1994, when in his newspaper article, one Nasiru Ikara, lauded 
NYSC for its more defined community based development 
projects in “poultry industry, mass literacy campaign, mobile 
health clinics, tree planting campaigns, legal aids, construction 45
projects, environmental sanitation and a host of others.” Since 
then, the restructuring of the programme continued and 
eventually matured into the creation of specific substantive and 
specialised groups, each with a peculiar purpose and mode of 
operations. An ex-corps member who served in Owerri, Imo 
State, confirmed the existence of such groups in 1998, including 46 
that of the Road Safety. Continuously, such groups continued 
mutating in number, philosophy and operations to eventually 
take their present shape. In the recent times, the approved CDS 
groups – which were operated throughout the nation – as 
identified by an NYSC publication, released in 2014, were 
sixteen in number. Each of the sixteen approved CDS groups has 
44 
National Youth Service Corps (2014), ABC of Community Development and Special 
Project Department… , pp. 4-5.45   
N. Ikharo (24-02-1994), “NYSC and National Development'.46 th 
Interview with Aisha B. Bawa (19 Sept. 2020), an ex-corps member who served in 
Owerri, Imo State in the1997/1998 service year, at Bado area, Sokoto.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020210
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

its peculiar purpose and methods of activities. These are shown 
in the table below:
Table 5: CDS Groups, their Purposes and Activities
S/N CDS Groups Purpose Activities
1 Corps Legal Aid 
Group (CLAG)
·Free legal service to the less 
privileged and indigent inmates 
prison (victims of dials and violation 
of rights)
·Sensitisation of the public on 
fundamental human rights
·Advocacy
·Visit to prison
·Legal service to inmates and 
indigent persons
·Public lecture and 
awareness on fundamental 
human rights
2 Sports Group ·Creates avenue for recreation and 
healthy rivalry among corps 
members and the community
·Arousing the consciousness of living 
healthy and purposeful lifestyles
through participation in one form of 
physical activity or the other
·Identifying talents among corps 
members.
·Participation in sports 
competition
·Identifying and training 
members of the community
·Organising sports 
competition
3 Cultural and Tourism 
Group (Band, Dance, 
Drama & Tourism)
·Promoting Arts and Culture
·Dissemination of vital socio-economic 
and political problems and prospects
·Awareness creation on tourism
·Identifying talents
·Creation of tourism clubs
·Entertainment
·Setting up of schemes 
theater gro ups
4 Education 
Development Group 
(Mass Literacy, Adult 
Education, Extra 
Murals)
·Enhance the educational standard of 
the host community
·Create guidance and counseling for 
students
·Campaign against illiteracy
·Mass literacy classes for 
adults
·Organising ext ra mural 
classes for students
·Organising of in-school 
programmes
·Setting up ICT laboratories
5 Environmental 
Protection and 
Sanitation Group 
(Ecovanguard, 
NESREA)
·To promise and sustain healthy 
environment
·To create awareness on suitable 
environment management and 
regeneration
·Tree planting
·Sanitation
·Drainage control
·Erosion control
·Reforestation
·Landscaping
6 Editorial/ Publicity 
Group
·Compliment the activities of the 
NYSC PRU in disseminating 
information to the community
·Making presentation on 
mass med ia to enlighten 
people on socio-cultural 
education
·Production of NYSC 
magazine
7 Road Safety Group ·To contribute to public safety on our 
roads
·Sensitisation and control of 
traffic 
·Rendering first aid to 
accident victims
·Establishment of road safety 
clubs in school
8 Reproductive Health 
& HIV/AIDs Group
·To train and mentor students
·To mobilise and strengthen 
community based responses in 
HIV/AIDS prevention
·Sensitisation and campaign 
·Formation of anti -aids clubs 
in schools
·Training of students as peer 
educators
·Counseling and referral 
services on HIV/AIDS and 
others STIS
GROUPS AND SOCIETIES IN THE NYSC SCHEME 211
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

9 Anti-corruption 
Group (EFCC & 
ICPC)
·To help in eradicating corruption 
through campaign
·Sensitisation
·Creation of Awareness in 
school and organisation 
·Establish anti-corruption 
club in schools and 
organization
10 Service delivery 
Group (Attitudinal 
Change, Re-Branding, 
SERVICOM)
·Sensitisation on service delivery and 
good work ethics
·Training
·Sensitisation
·Group discussion on value 
reorientation
11 MDGs ·To create awareness and actualise the 
8 goals of MDGs
·Advocacy and mentoring 
the host community
12 Medical and Health 
Services Group (Red 
Cross, Breast without 
Spot, Polio Plus etc.)
·Promotion and provision of medical 
services
·Health outreach
·First aid administration
·Establishment of 
community based clinic
·Setting up clinic for NYSC 
secretariat
13 Drug free and 
Quality control 
Group (NDLEA, 
NAFDAC, SON)
·Eradication of fake and adulterated 
food and drugs
·Create awareness on the danger of 
drug abuse
·Create awareness on fake and sub-
standard products
·Campaign and sensitisation
·Establishing of drug free 
clubs in schools
·Ensuring linkages with the 
host communities
14 Agro-Allied Group ·Support agro-allied activities in host 
communities
·To promote better food production 
and security
·Demonstration 
farms/extension services
·Establishment of Farmers 
Cooperative societies
v Training and capacity 
building
·Establishment of young 
farmers clubs in host 
communities
15 Charity Services and 
Gender Group 
(NAPTIP, 
WOTCLEF)
·To improve the living standard of the
downtrodden
·Charity outreaches to the public
·To create awareness on gender 
equality
·Campaign against human trafficking 
and child abuse
·Mobilise funds and other 
resources for less privileged
·Visit of orphanage and 
prisons
·Sensitisation and awareness 
creation
·Donation of materials to 
homes
16 Disaster Management 
Group (NEMA)
·To create awareness on disaster 
management
·To disseminate information on how 
to manage disaster through corps 
emergency vanguards
·Public enlightenment on 
disaster management and 
control through the 
emergency vanguards
·Disaster management
·Liason with NEMA on how 
to assist during emergencies 
·Formation of emergency 
vanguard clubs in schools
Source: National Youth Service Corps (2014), ABC of Community 
Development and Special Project Department, Abuja, National 
Youth Service Directorate Headquarters, pp. 5-8.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020212
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Nevertheless, oral evidences have shown that from 2014 to 
date (2020), there have been some numerical increases and 
changes as regards the CDS groupings. In a group interview 
with Mallam Nura Manir, the NYSC ZI for Katsina Zone and 
Alhaji Samaila Sulieman, a CDS Schedule Officer in Katsina 
State, the duo confirmed that new CDS groups were recently 
created by the NYSC. Among these are the 'Info Tech' and 
'Financial Inclusion' groups. While the former is a specialised 
group for corps members with background training in 
Information Technology and Computer Science, the latter is 
created for the graduates of economics and accounting, among 
others. These groups were created to meet up the social changes 
that necessitate the increasing need for a computer literate 
society and the need for inculcating financial management 
among the teeming youth in the country. As regards to changes, 
for example, the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) group 
was recently renamed to Sustainable Development Goals 47
(SDGs) group.
Already identified as situated within a larger ambit of the 
CDS objectives, the various CDS groups discussed above are 
further intersected by a common mode of administration, some 
classifications and other general guiding principles. The 
administration of the CDS groups is well structured and 
stratified. At its highest level, the National Directorate of the 
NYSC has a department called 'Community Development and 48
Special Projects Department'. This department, headed by a 
Substantive Director, has branches in the various secretariats of 
the 36 States across the country. Each of the various branches of 
the CDS Department is headed by an Assistant Director. 
Essentially, the CDS Department and its various branches are 
saddled with the responsibility of inspecting and supervising 
the CDS activities. They are, however, supported by other NYSC 
officials such as the ZIs and most importantly, the LIs, who 
47 
Group interview with Mallam Nura Manir – NYSC Zonal Inspector, Katsina Zone & nd   
Alhaji Samaila Suleiman – CDS Schedule Officer (2 Sept. 2020), at NYSC Secreteriat, 
Katsina State.48
Ibid.
GROUPS AND SOCIETIES IN THE NYSC SCHEME 213
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

inspect, not just CDS, but other activities of corps members 
across all the 774 local government areas in Nigeria. Each of the 
ZIs and LGIs is expected to go round regularly, to supervise the 
activities of the various CDS groups operating in their respective 
areas of jurisdiction; they also report to their respective CDS 
Department branches. Meanwhile, at the various CDS 
Department branches, there is a Deputy Assistant Director and 
various CDS Schedule Officers working under the Assistant 
Director. Each of these Schedule Officers is each given the 
mandate to supervise the activities of the various CDS groups 49
within the state in which they work. At the lowest strata, each 
CDS group is headed by a corps member –usually known as 
'President' – who is assisted by other subordinates, often with 
designated tasks (in a nutshell, EXCO) within the group. 
However, some CDS groups' leaders are not called President; for 
instance, the Road Safety group leader is known as Cadet in 50
Chief.
Worthy of note, however, is the fact that not all of these CDS 
groups are solely run and administered by the NYSC. There are 
collaborative CDS groups: the NYSC collaborates with National 
and Non-Governmental Organisations, among other 
establishments, to plan and execute development projects/ 
programmes. The NYSC signs Memorandum of Understanding 
(MOU) with partners, clearly stating the roles of each partner. 
Some of the collaborative CDS groups include Road Safety, 
Reproductive Health and HIV/AIDS group, Anti-Corruption 
EFCC and ICPC group, MDGs, Drug Free and Quality Control 
Group, etc. Under these groups, corps members are usually 51 
involved as volunteers for the concerned programme.
Generally, various interviews at Kaduna, Katsina, Kano and 
Sokoto States proved strong analogies in the administration of 
the CDS groups in various States across the country. There are, 
49
Ibid.50 
Interview with Abdulwahab Lawal Rafindadi…51 
National Youth Service Corps (2014), ABC of Community Development and Special Project 
Department… , p. 9.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020214
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

however, few differences, especially marked by the personal 52 
differences of the people operating such administrations.
Under the supervision and management of this well-
structured administrative chain of the CDS, CDS activities are 
carried out in line with some established principles. Following 
the 3 weeks' orientation camp – with which the service year 
commences – corps members are expected to report to the LI of 
local government area where they are posted for Primary 
Assignment. There, the LI assign each corps member to one of 
the various CDS groups. In fact, as a matter of policy, each corps 
member must belong to one CDS group and no corps member is 
allowed to participate in more than one group. Failure to 
participate in the CDS without any genuine reason attracts 53
punishment, which is often an extension of service year. At the 
local governments – especially remote ones – where the number 
of corps members is not fair enough to be distributed across all 
the existing CDS groups, the LI has the mandate to choose 
specific groups with most vital needs of the host community and 54
distribute corps members across such groups. Although a 
prerogative of the LI, the posting of corps members to various 
CDS groups is done considering some factors. For example, in 
specialised groups, only corps members with the necessary 
educational background are posted: only corps members with 
experience in medicine or any paramedical course are posted to 
Health Services Group and only graduates of Law are posted to 
the Corps Legal Aid Group. For other groups, the LI may 
randomly post corps members; he/she may, however, inquire to 
know the corps members' interest before posting them. This is to 
ensure maximum commitment of the corps members in 
performing CDS activities, as they are more likely to stay 
52 th 
Interview with Ayuba Dauda (13 Sept. 2020), an ex-corps member and former 
President of SERVICOM Group – Kaduna, at Narayi, Kaduna. Also, Interview with th 
Haladu Abubakar (8 Sept 2020), NYSC Staff, at NYSC Secretariat, Dala LGA, Kano.53 th 
Interview with Mutuah Joshua (15 Sept. 2020), Assistant Director in charge of CDS 
Department Sokoto, at NYSC Secretariat, Kalambaina, Sokoto State.54 th 
Interview with Mustapha Muhammad Bakori (18 Sept. 2020), LI – Dutsinma LGA, 
Katsina State.
GROUPS AND SOCIETIES IN THE NYSC SCHEME 215
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

55
committed if posted to the groups they are interested in.
From the time they are posted to various CDS groups up to 
the end of their service year, corps members are expected to 
dedicate one day in every week for CDS meetings and activities. 
More often than not, groups meet Thursdays or Fridays for such 
activities. On the days of such meetings, corps members must be 
fully kitted in the NYSC uniform before they are allowed to 56
attend. As a sanction, any corps member that refuses to attend 
CDS activities for two consecutive weeks within a month would 
not be cleared by the CDS Schedule Officer for that month; 
impliedly, they would miss their monthly clearance. For those 
who fail to attend once in a month, however, they are warned. 
Through the agency of the CDS groups, corps members are 
expected to identify community projects, rub their minds to 
agree on the necessity and feasibility of a project, and develop 
and submit a proposal to that effect; for the consideration and 
approval of the NYSC. Preferably, by the fourth month of the 
service year, it is hoped that most proposals have been 
submitted to the State Coordinator through LIs and ZIs for 
consideration and approval. These are, however, undertaken 57 
through a plethora of processes.
The concerned CDS group must first of all identify the basic 
needs of host community through both the observation of the 
challenges facing the community and engaging the major 
community stakeholders – such as traditional leaders, social 
groups, etc. Having identified the needs of the host community, 
two methods are often applied in choosing a project to embark 
on. One of such methods is the 'Smart Test of Project 
Management' which interrogates the feasibility of the specific 
project, with due consideration for sources of funding, its 
benefits to the host communities and the limited time the corps 
55   th   
Interview with Sabo Nana (9 Sept. 2020), Assistant Director – CDS Department, 
NYSC Secretariat, Kano State.56 
Interview with Haladu Abubakar…57 
National Youth Service Corps (2014), ABC of Community Development and Special Project 
Department… , pp. 11-12.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020216
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

members have to complete it. The other method used is the 
consideration of the 'Felt- Need' of a community: this ensures 
that the project addresses the most necessary needs of the host 58
community. The corps members should then further interact 
with the host community's stakeholders in order to identify 
sponsors of the projects from among individuals and 
organisations within the state of service. Corps members are 
always discouraged to invest their own 'minor' incomes in 
executing projects. Once the projects are planned and sponsors 
identified, the concerned CDS groups write proposal the NYSC 
State Coordinator through the LGI and ZI. By the sixth month of 
the service year, it is hoped that corps members have submitted 
their proposals and that such proposals have been approved. 
For the rest of the year, the project would be executed with a time 
to time supervision from NYSC. Also, late proposals for minor th 
projects and programmes are received and approved. By the 10
month, it is expected that every project has been completed and 59
inaugurated. And corps members who proved exceptional in 
executing such projects are awarded by NYSC; anyway, 
personal CDS often gets the awards easily because most of the 60
awards are for individuals rather than groups.
II. Religious Societies
The three corps members' religious societies/associations that 
operate under the aegis of the NYSC are: Muslim Corpers' 
Association of Nigeria (MCAN), National Association of 
Catholic Corpers (NACC) and Nigeria Christian Corpers' 
Fellowship. Although operating under its auspices, these 
religious societies were not created by the NYSC. They were, 
rather, created by individuals/religious bodies and approved 
by NYSC, with a stipulation of operating in line with the general 
objectives of the scheme. In every state, NYSC officials are 
attached to these societies in order to supervise their activities 
58
Ibid, pp. 9-10.
59
Ibid, pp. 9-12.
60
Interview with Mustapha Muhammad Bakori…
GROUPS AND SOCIETIES IN THE NYSC SCHEME 217
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

61
and ensure compliance. The creation of these associations is not 
unconnected to some aspects of the history of the two major 
religions in Nigeria, i.e. Islam and Christianity. A common 
thread that runs through the evolution of these two different 
religions vis-à-vis the Nigerian society, however, is a protracted 
history of religious politicisation. Since the creation of Nigeria as 
a single political entity during the colonial period, Islam and 
Christianity have been increasingly held by various groups of 
people, albeit passionately, as social identity signifiers, which 
are continuously manipulated to activate social conflicts and 
achieve political ends. This have been more glaring in the 
northern part of the country where the British colonial policy of 
cultural and religious non-interference in the predominantly 
Muslim emirates of the far-North coincided with missionary 
activities in the Middle Belt, thereby historically forging two 
contending world communities, and strengthening the divide 62
between the Muslims and non-Muslims within the region.
This was further entrenched by the colonial re-
conceptualisation of the 'Islamic' emirate system to Native 
Authority, which was used by the British to ensure the effective 
running of indirect rule throughout the North. Naturally, 
Christians in the Middle Belt felt stigmatised with a feeling that 
Christianity was abandoned as a politically subversive religion. 
Following this, therefore, were heavy criticisms by the Christian 63
Missionaries operating in the Middle Belt. This condition was 
re-echoed during the struggle for independence when the non-
Muslims in the Middle Belt began pursuing nationalism partly 
as a movement for religious and ethnic survival in the face of 
Muslims domination. As a result, non-Muslim organisations 
were created as part of the nationalist movement during the 
dawn of Nigerian independence. One of such organisations was 
the Non-Muslim League founded in Jos in 1950, which 
metamorphosed into the Middle Zone League in 1951, and 
eventually, resurfaced as the United Middle Belt Congress 
61
Interview with Mustapha Muhammad Bakori…62 
S. Suleiman (2012), “Exhuming Passions…, p. 22.63
Ibid.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020218
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

(UMBC) in 1955. The UMBC was designated a “Pagan and 64
Christian party” by the British colonial Government. Although 
the Premier of the Northern Region, Ahmadu Sardauna has been 
praised for his efforts towards creating an indivisible Northern 
Region, as his administration carried everybody along 
irrespective of ethnicity or religion, religious cleavages were 65 
reinstated by his 'Islamisation' campaigns. This has been the 
general thread in the northern Nigeria. Given the controversial 
religious space within the region, therefore, it is not surprising 
that, as shall be seen, all the three corps members' religious 
societies – MCAN, NACC and NCCF – were created, and are to 
date, headquartered in the northern Nigeria. Both as a melting 
pot and an umbrella of national unity, NYSC' approval of these 
religious associations was not more than a tactful bargain which 
did not only assured skeptics that they could practice their 
religious activities wherever they are posted to serve within the 
country, but also made them to accept the scheme unbiased and 
truly national.
MCAN is so far the only Islamic association operating within 
the NYSC scheme. Established during the 1978/1979 service 
year, MCAN came to limelight during a critical stage in the 
history of Islam in Nigeria. It was a period when the call for 
inciting actions towards Islamic revivalism, particularly echoed 
clerics such as Shaikh Mahmud Gummi and Shaikh Isma'il Idris, 
reached its climax with the inauguration of an Islamic sect th 
popularly known as Izalah. Izalah was inaugurated on 12
March 1978 in Jos, the very same year when MCAN was 66 
established. Perhaps, the creation of MCAN was inspired by 
the tempo commanded by the day's Islamic resurgence in the 
64
Ibid.65 
See S. Garba et. al. (2016), “An Appraisal of Islamisation Activities of Sir Ahmadu Bello 
'The Sardaunan Sokoto' Among Maguzawa of Northern Nigeria”, in I. A. Malumfashi et. 
al. (eds.), The Hausa People, Language and History: Past, Present and Future, Kaduna, 
Garkuwa Publishers. See also, M. T. Usman and I. A. Zakari (2014), “Islamisation 
Campaigns in the Gbayi Areas of Former Minna Chiefdom, 1963-1965”, in T. Wuam and 
M. L. Salahu (eds.), Aspects of Niger State History: Essays in Honour of Professor Ibrahim 
Adamu Kolo, Lapai, IBB University Press.66 
See A. I. Yandaki, (1990) “A History of the Izalah Movement in Northern Nigeria Up to
1989”, M. A. Dissertation, Dept. of History, UDUS.
GROUPS AND SOCIETIES IN THE NYSC SCHEME 219
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

country. After its creation in 1978, MCAN was eventually 
registered under the Corporate Affairs Commission of Nigeria 
in 1994.With its National Headquarters located in Mubushi 
District of Abuja, MCAN has branches all over the country. Its 
membership, though not compulsory, is open to all serving 
Muslim corps members within Nigeria. MCAN usually receive 
and register new members at the orientation camp, at the 67
beginning of every service year. Most of its members usually 
retire from MCAN following their discharge from the NYSC 
scheme at the end of the service year. The major objectives of the 
MCAN include:
1. to serve as a coordinating body and a forum in exchange of 
the ideas between Muslim corps members in all parts of the 
federation;
2. to protect the legitimate interest and rights of all Muslim 
youth corps members in the country;
3. to promote better understanding of Islam among corps 
members, students and the rest of the populace with a view 
to having a more dedicated and unified ummah; and
4. to complement the efforts of various Islamic organisations in 
the propagation of Islam in Nigeria and throughout the 68
world.
To achieve these objectives, MCAN has some organised 
programmes that are meticulously structured to ensure that 
they do not hinder the full participation of corps members in 
their national service programmes. These programmes are 
structured into three major categories: pre-orientation 
programmes, the orientation camps programmes and post-
orientation programmes. In the pre-orientation programmes, 
MCAN liaise with the Muslims Students' Society of Nigeria 
(MSSN) – which operates in most tertiary institutions – by jointly 
organising seminars to familiarise prospective corps members 
with the programmes of NYSC and MCAN. The orientation 
67
https://www.mcan.org.ng/about68
Ibid.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020220
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

camp programmes commence with the opening of orientation 
camp at the beginning of every service year. Here MCAN 
identifies and mobilises Muslim corps members to provide an 
atmosphere for personal spiritual improvement and closer 
interactions with Muslim corps members from different 
backgrounds. To achieve these, activities such as lectures 
presentation, use of posters or banners to publicise mosque 
activities, regular da'awah/enlightenment activities and 
paradise night (MCAN night) are carried out during the 
orientation camp. In the post orientation programmes, activities 
such as weekly Al- Usrah programme, various 
da'awah/enlightenment programmes, visitation to prison 
yards, hospital, community development programme, skill 
acquisition, leadership training programme, annual national 
sisters' seminar, conventions, general meeting, etc. are carried 
out. This is with a view to engaging the Muslim corps members 
in MCAN activities from the moment they leave orientation 
camp up to the very last day before their passing 69
out. Meanwhile, during the post-camp period, MCAN also 
provides accommodation for some of its members at the MCAN 70 
lodges which exist in all the states across the country. The 
activities of MCAN are financed through monthly contributions 71
from its members and freewill donations.
The NACC is one of the two Christian associations that 
operate under the umbrella of the NYSC. It is a religious 
association whose membership is open, but not compulsory, to 
all Nigerian Christian corps members of the Roman Catholic 
denomination. The NACC was established in Jos, in September 
1982 by Rev. Dr. Gabriel Gonsum Ganaka, a former Archbishop 
of Jos, Plateau State. During its formative stage, the association 
was widely known as the Association of Catholic Corpers 
(ACC). Initially the association's activities were concentrated in 
69
https://www.nairaland.com/1962105/mcan-muslim-corpers-association-nigeria70
Interview with Mustapha Muhammad Bakori…71 th 
Interview with Aminu Umar Alkammawa (16 Sept. 2020), an ex-corps member and 
MCAN official who served at Abia State in 2005/2006 Service year, at Usmanu 
Danfodiyo University, Sokoto.
GROUPS AND SOCIETIES IN THE NYSC SCHEME 221
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Jos. However, the need to reach out to other members around the 
country saw the spread of the associations to other parts of the 
federation. The association's secretariat, whose foundation 
stone was laid in 2003 by Archbishop Ignatius Ayau Kagainma, 
is located in Jos. Headquartered in Jos, the NACC has state 
chapters, normally situated at the Cathedral – the Catholic 
church's Bishops and Archbishops' base in all the 36 States of the 72
Nation including Abuja. In 2008, the NACC was officially 
recognised and approved by the Catholic Bishops Conference of 
Nigeria (CBCN) and Rev. Fr. Celsus Daklong of the Catholic 
Diocese of Shendamwas appointed as the National Chaplian of 
the corps members. The NACC is recognised as the fourth youth 
organisation in youth apostolate of the Roman Catholic Church 
in Nigeria; they work with the Catholic Secretariat of Nigeria to 
achieve their objectives. Also, in conjunction with the Catholic 
Youth Organisation of Nigeria, Nigerian Federation of Catholic 
Students and the Youth Catholic Students of Nigeria, NACC 
send its yearly reports and plans to the secretary of the Catholic 73 
Bishops Conference of Nigeria Youth Committee. The 
objectives of the NACC include:
1. creating a forum that unites and promotes interaction 
among catholic corps members;
2. to ensure that the aims and objectives of the NYSC scheme 
are achieved; 
3. to help spread the gospel by propagating the catholic faith 
while ensuring that its members live by the faith they 
profess;
4. to positively impart through various projects to the host 
communities where the organisation is situated; and
5. to foster the welfare of its members in a bid to create 74 
leadership traits among her members.
72
https://nigerianinfopedia.com.ng/addresses-of-nacc-state-chapters-in-nigeria/ 73
Ibid.74
Ibid.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020222
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The second corps members' Christian association that 
operates within the NYSC scheme is the NCCF. It is a body that 
houses other inter-denominational, non-denominational and 
protestant NYSC youth corps members in Nigeria. Established 
in 1983, NCCF exist in all the 36 states in Nigeria, including 
Abuja; it has its national headquarters in Jos, Plateau State. At 
the various states, the NCCF has a residential house known as 
'Family House'. In each state, there are NCCF zones, sub-zones 
and units. The NCCF Family House is considered as “a home 
away from home” where members of the association could be 75 
accommodated if they so wishes. The objectives of the NCCF 
are: to protect and propagate the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ; 
to bring all born again youth corps members into functional 76 
parts; and to strengthen Christians in the faith. At its national 
headquarters in Jos, national delegates hold a conference 
meeting every quarter. This meeting comprises all the 37 
chapters in Nigeria. At the meetings, resolutions and policies are 
put in place, which are expected to be implemented by state 
chapters with no questioning. The NCCF was registered in line 
with the Companies and Allied Matters Decree No. 1 of 1990. To 
achieve its objectives, the NCCF performs various humanitarian 
and evangelical activities. These include preaching Christianity 
in the nooks and crannies of the country including house to 
house and street evangelism, hospital visitations, prison 
visitation, etc. These activities are funded from three major 
sources: tithes, offerings, freewill donation and Capitation. 
Capitation is one out of corps members' 12 months allowances, 77
payable in installments.
Challenges Faced by Corps Members Groups and Societies
The operations of the various CDS groups and corps members' 
religious societies within the NYSC scheme are not without 
challenges. Indeed, corps members are faced with multiple 
challenges amid the discharge of the activities of these groups 
75
https://www.nccfnational.com 76
Ibid.77
Ibid.
GROUPS AND SOCIETIES IN THE NYSC SCHEME 223
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

and societies. One of the major challenges is that of funding. 
Actually, no group or association can function without adequate 
funding of its activities. In operating CDS groups, corps 
members are often faced a the financial challenges. It was earlier 
noted that funding of the CDS groups' projects and programmes 
is not provided by the NYSC. As such, having identified the 
specific CDS projects and programmes to be undertaken, each 
group of corps members reaches out to philanthropists, wealthy 
individuals and organisations within the concerned host 
communities; who are expected to sponsor the 
projects/programmes. Conspicuously, however, not only is the 
identification of such philanthropists, wealthy individuals and 
organisations often hard for the corps members who are usually 
new to the host communities, it also demands intense 
commitment from the corps members to persuade such 
potential sponsors to fund a particular community development 78
project/programme. But even when they agree to sponsor the 
project/programme, the sponsors only finance the specific 
project/programme identified. As for the basic homework they 
are supposed to do, that is, identification of community needs 
and exchanges of ideas on the specific project/programme to 
undertake, corps members often encounter all sorts of 
inconveniencies, caused by financial instability. For example, 
they are faced by financial challenges shrouding mobility and 
weekly meetings – many CDS groups do not have reliable means 
of transportation or even enough chairs to be used by their 79 
members during meetings. As a result, where corps members 
are committed to the CDS, they often end-up succumbing to 
making financial contributions, which they are always 
discouraged of, in order to finance some minor activities. Many 
informants, among the corps members, confessed that corps 80 
members actually do contribute money for CDS activities. The 
same is applicable to religious societies. While MCAN members 
78 
Interview with Mutuah Joshua…79 th 
Interview with John Iliya (4 Sept. 2020), Serving Corps Member, at Kano State 
NYSC Secretariat, Dala LGA, Kano State.80
Ibid. Also, Interview with Ayuba Dauda…
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020224
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

do give monthly contributions to facilitate the activities of the 
association, NCCF collects up to one out of the twelve months 
stipends/allowances that each of their members is paid by 81
NYSC.
Corps members' CDS groups and religious societies are also 
faced by a problem of inconsistency in terms of administration 
and commitment of the corps members. At the most basic level 
of their administrations, corps members' groups and societies 
are primarily run by an EXCO made up of corps members, who 
are registered in batches that only last for a year, i.e. the end of 
every service year. According to the various CDS Schedule 
Officers interviewed in Kano, Katsina and Sokoto States, this 
poses a very serious challenge as regards the sustainability and 
improvement on the nature, volume and of course, impact of 
CDS projects/ programmes undertaken each year. Many CDS 
schedule officers and LIs confessed that during each service 
year, they encounter corps members with different instincts and 
commitment towards the CDS. To them, the successive batches 
of corps members they have graduated from various CDS 
groups in the past depict the fluctuation of corps members' 
commitment towards the CDS. While some batches demonstrate 
all sense of seriousness, others do not care about the CDS 
activities. “Some only participate because they know it is 82
compulsory” , stressed Nana – an Assistant Director heading 
the CDS Department branch in Kano. In some sets, however, one 83 
may find a mixture of serious and unserious corps members.
Some corps members are not even punctual at the weekly 
meetings, less to talk about participating in community 
development projects; some get their meetings attendance 
signed for them by their colleagues, a reason why the former 
Director General of NYSC, Brigadier General Suleiman Kazaure 
attempted to introduce biometric attendance for the CDS 
81   
Interview with Aminu Umar Alkammawa… See also, 
https://www.nccfnational.com...82 
Interview with Sabo Nana…83
Ibid. Also, Group interview with Mallam Nura Manir…
GROUPS AND SOCIETIES IN THE NYSC SCHEME 225
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

84 
groups' weekly meetings, in 2018. The case is not much 
different with religious societies. An ex-corps member who 
served in Abia State in 2005 made similar lamentations. 
According to him, he singlehandedly took the pain of steering 
the activities of MCAN in Isiukwuato Local Government during 
his service year: sometimes, he even had to plead with the few 
Muslim fellows serving in the same local government at the time 85 
to join him in performing their daily congregational prayers;
less one thinks of them performing other important activities. 
Essentially, the speed with which the administrators and 
members of these groups and associations are changed, coupled 
with the commitment swings leads to interruptions that causes 
stalemate, hindering long-term improvements in the activities of 
the CDS groups and corps members' religious societies.
The corps members CDS groups and religious societies are 
platforms on which people from diverse ethnic, religious, 
regional and sectarian backgrounds meet to deliberate, agree 
and work on national and religious issues. Sometimes, it seems 
difficult for people with different perceptions of life and its 
essence to agree on issues. Added to this, are the time limit 
constraints. Corps members 'CDS groups and religious societies 
may want to execute more essential projects, but time 
constraints would not allow them to do so. More so, sometimes 
the projects corps members initiate cannot be completed within 
the time limit they have for the service year. Therefore, in order 
to take the credit, corps members may compromise the 'felt need' 
of the society and go for any other project that may not be very 
basic to the needs of the host communities. An ex-corps member 
who served in Jama'are, Bauchi State during the 2002/2003 
service year, explained how they abandoned other important 
albeit time-consuming projects to undertake a project in which 
they placed directional signposts of streets' names in Jama'are 
town; even this project was not pursued to its logical conclusion, 
84 th 
M. Onochie (29 Nov. 2018), “NYSC Warns Corps Members Against Skipping CDS, 
Daily Trust, https://dailytrust.com/nysc-warns-corps-members-against-skipping-cds85 
Interview with Aminu Umar Alkammawa…
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020226
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

86 
chiefly due to time constraints.
Finally, the most serious challenge faced by the CDS groups 
and religious societies throughout the history of the NYSC 
scheme is that of the Covid-19 Pandemic. For the first time in 
nearly five decades of NYSC's existence, the activities of the CDS 
groups were temporarily suspended to avoid the contagion of 
the Coronavirus. Indeed, despite these and many other 
challenges – actually too numerous to be discussed here – the 
corps members' groups and societies have been tremendously 
impactful. This leads the discourse to its next section. 
Impact of Corps Members' Groups and Societies on the NYSC 
Scheme and Community Development 
The corps members' CDS groups and religious societies have for 
many years, proved impactful in various ways. However, 
considering the myriad of Nigeria's unity and development 
challenges, some critics inconsiderately suggested that even the 
NYSC scheme, within which such groups and societies are 87 
situated, has failed. Worthy of note, however, is the fact that 
NYSC was not established to serve as the sole facilitator of unity 
and development in Nigeria; it was rather created to contribute 
its own quota towards the duo, alongside other important 
stakeholders in the society – including other bureaus of the 
government, civil society organisations, religious organisations, 
community members, etc. As such, the continuing existence of 
the NYSC despite the bureaucratic and ethno-religious 
mayhems in Nigeria is enough to suggest that, although there 
are many rooms for improvement within the scheme, it has not 
failed. The impact of NYSC's corps members' groups and 
societies could be viewed within three major contexts: their 
impact on the NYSC scheme, the corps members and on 
community development. 
86 
Interview with Tukur M. Mukhtar, an ex-corps member who served at Jama'are, Bauchi 
State in 2002/2003 Service Year, at Dept. of History, Usmanu Danfodiyo University, 
Sokoto. 87 
This was observed by Oneh. See G. O. Oneh (2018), “NYSC's Engagement in the 
Development of Abuja…, p. 149.
GROUPS AND SOCIETIES IN THE NYSC SCHEME 227
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

For many years, the CDS groups and religious societies that 
operate within the NYSC scheme have been very instrumental in 
its sustenance. As already noted, the NYSC scheme operates its 
national service programme annually. During each service year, 
the scheme trains corps members through some established 
technicalities including those associated with the orientation 
course, primary assignment, CDS, SAED, etc. Of all these, 
however, no single programme facilitates consistent healthy 
intersections among the corps members and between them and 
the NYSC officials, throughout the service year, than the CDS 
groups and religious societies; in fact, even the community 
development service would have been hard to coordinate 
without the instrumentality of the groups, for how could the 
NYSC coordinate its CDS activities – with the average number of 
corps members mobilised across Nigeria, steadily increasing 88 
from 223,677 since 2010 – without the instrumentality of the 
CDS groups that reduce the rather high number of corps 
members into manageable categories across various states? 
Indeed, the constant intersections provided by CDS groups' and 
corps members' religious societies' regular meetings; the healthy 
controversies evoked during such meetings, which are often 
stirred by debates on national issues, host communities' needs, 
specific projects to be undertaken and religious issues; and the 
strictness, formalities, the wearing of the NYSC uniform to the 
meetings and fear for sanctions engendered by the supervisions 
by CDS Schedule Officers, ZIs and LGIs – all constitute some 
sorts of bureaucratic procedures without which the national 
service year would be both dry and unappealing. This leads to 
the second area of concern, i.e. the impact of CDS groups and 
corps members' religious societies on corps members.
More than any other programme within the NYSC scheme, 
CDS groups and corps members’ religious societies facilitates 
direct interactions between the corps members and the open 
society within their host communities, especially through such 
groups’ and societies’ programmes like sensitisation, visitations, 
88
Ibid, p. 144.az
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020228
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

etc. This greatly assists the corps members in unlearning prejudices 
and in having a firsthand confirmation that Nigerians of all 
ethnic groups share multiple similarities. Internally, corps 
members who belong to the same CDS groups and religious 
societies often develop strong ties. In this parlance, an NYSC 
official who served in Abuja in the year 2000 confirmed that he is 
still in contact with some of the friends he met through CDS 89 
group and MCAN. Two other NYSC officials affirmed that CDS 
partnership have led to inter- ethnic marriages among corps 90
members.
More essentially, however, CDS groups and religious 
societies have been instrumental in imbuing corps members 
with the virtues of discipline, humility, leadership traits, team 
work, patriotism, etc. The CDS groups often provide platforms 
for inculcating these virtues in the corps members through the 
rigours associated with the multiple interactions among the 
corps members, with the NYSC officials, the major community 
stake holders, as well as the open society within the host 
communities, at various phases of planning and executing CDS 
projects/programmes. Additionally, they serve as platforms for 
corps members' individual skills development, especially in 
terms of innovativeness, problem-solving skills and 
entrepreneurship, thereby deemphasising dependence on 91
public service employment. Such groups expose corps 
members to various challenges, the most apparent being the 
identification of their host communities' basic problems and 
innovatively providing solutions to them. As for religious 
societies, they provide corps members with an avenue for 
furthering spiritual growth and a shared sense of fellowship, 
through regular worshiping activities and even through the 
agency of the accommodations that such groups provide for 
corps members. The MCAN, NACC and NCCF all have lodges 
where they accommodate their members, especially the newly 92
mobilised members. Without making much effort to further 
89
Interview with Mustapha Muhammad Bakori…90
Interview with Sabo Nana… Also, Interview with Mutuah Joshua…91
N. Ikharo (24-02-1994), “NYSC and National Development”…92
Ibid. Also Interview with Aminu Umar Alkammawa… and https://www.nccfnational.com...
GROUPS AND SOCIETIES IN THE NYSC SCHEME 229
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

justify these points, they could be better understood through the 
discourse on the next area of concern, i.e. the impact of CDS 
groups and corps members' religious societies on community 
development in the country.
The impact of corps members' groups and societies on the 
wider society are examined within two major contexts. While 
the programmes undertaken by such groups are considered 
separately, the projects they undertake are equally examined. It 
is, however, pertinent to understand that in the face of Nigeria's 
numerous developmental challenges, corps members' groups 
and societies – with all the challenges they faced – could not 
change the whole direction of issues for the better. They could 
only undertake programmes and projects within their limited 
reach. Perhaps, their motivation comes with the understanding 
of the fact that if their programmes/projects can improve the 
living condition of even one individual or community, they have 
reduced the people's problems and have served humanity. As 
intelligible from the above discussions on CDS groups and corps 
members' religious societies, they do undertake programmes 
that include sensitisations, visitations, campaigns, seminars, 
lectures, etc. This has, for many years, been part of the activities 
of the corps members.
Between 1982 and 1992, in Abuja alone, corps members had 
through their CDS activities executed 26 health programmes 
such as health campaigns, immunisation campaigns and other 
community health services. Within the same period, 15 social 
works were undertaken within the spectrum of environmental 93
improvement and legal aid. To be more detailed, during the 
2005/ 2006 service year, the corps members of the NYSC Charity 
Services CDS Group, who served at Aba North LGA, Abia State 
visited a Motherless Babies' Home in Aba, where they donated 
assorted items to the indigent babies. Such items include rolls of 
toilet tissues, detergents, biscuits, insecticides, soaps and 94 
clothes. In the same service year, the Legal Aid CDS group 
93 
G. O. Oneh (2018), “NYSC's Engagement in the Development of Abuja…, p. 150.94   
F. O. Sunday (August 2006), “NYSC  Charity Services Group Donates to Indigent People”, 
Abiakopa – End of Service Year Magazine of NYSC Abia State – Batch B 2005, Vol. 2, No. 8, p. 23.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020230
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

facilitated the settlement of three accused persons' cases at court, 
and the release of five convicted persons with the options of fine 95 
from the prison. In these sorts of activities, corps members' 
religious societies are not left behind. It was the NCCF that paid 
a sum of ¦ 3,000 to the complainant for the discharge of one of 
those three accused persons, whose cases were settled by the 96 
Legal Aid group. Coming down to the year 2020, a serving 
corps member in Kano, shared with enthusiasm how they 
performed an outreach during which they went round the city 
with food and clippers to barb and feed indigent and vulnerable 97 
children, especially the Almajirai. The examples are 
inexhaustible.
Corps members' groups and societies have also been 
executing various projects, including construction projects. 
These projects cut across the constructions of bridges, culverts, 
pit latrines, public conveniences, feeder roads, market stalls, bus 
stops, classroom blocks, mosques, churches, etc. While such 
projects have immensely contributed, especially, in improving 
rural life throughout the nooks and crannies of Nigeria, they are 
too numerous to be portrayed in details here. However, with 
some few examples of these projects from different parts of the 
country, at various points in the years of NYSC's existence, one 
could, at least, imagine the impact of corps members' groups and 
societies through executing community development projects. 
As early as 1973/1974, i.e. during the very first service year run 
by the NYSC, archival records have shown evidence of 
construction projects undertaken by groups of corps members 
under the auspices of NYSC's CDS. Some of the works th st 
undertaken by corps members between 10 April and 1 May at 
the defunct North Western State (the present Sokoto, Kebbi, 
Zamfara and Niger States) included construction of Dam at 
Bodinga town, construction of Culvert at Yabo town, building of 
95 
J. N. Maishanu (August 2006), “Legal Aid Clinic CDS”, Abiakopa – End of Service Year 
Magazine of NYSC Abia State – Batch B 2005, Vol. 2, No. 8, p. 25.96
Ibid.97 
Interview with Badmus Oluwasegun…
GROUPS AND SOCIETIES IN THE NYSC SCHEME 231
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Market Stalls ant Bayawa town, construction of Night Shelter for 
relatives of patients at the General Hospital Birnin Kebbi, 
building of Adult Education Centre in Minna town, 7 miles 
projects of laying of pipes to Paiko water supply at Paiko town, 
erosion control at Kuchiworo, bridge construction at Kutigi and 
construction of 15 miles road along Gwadabawa-Tangaza road, 98
among others.
Coming down to the 1980s and 1990s, construction projects 
continued to be undertaken by corps members throughout the 
country. In Abuja alone, about 22 construction projects were 
undertaken. Some of these included building of a dispensary at 
Bwari in 1986, construction of a Mosque in Lugbe Village in 1987, 
invention of all-purpose cutting and sealing machine in 1989, 99
Digital Electronic Safe 1990/1991. In the mid years of the first st 
decade of the 21 Century, an ex-corps member and a former 
administrator of MCAN explained how they did not only 
founded a mosque in Isiukwato LGA, Abia State, but also 
bought kettles for ablution, wall clock, Islamic books, etc., all 100
under the auspices of their religious association. Even in the 
recent times, such projects are being planned and executed at 
various levels and dimensions. An NYSC official, from Katsina, 
Mustapha Bakori, shared a story of how they commissioned 
about 5 different projects in one day, at Baure LGA of Katsina 
State in 2014. These projects, a few among which were personal 101 
CDS, included a block of classes at a primary school. Similarly, 
an ex-corps member who served in the SERVICOM CDS group 
in Kaduna State in the 2019/2020 service year explained how 
they developed the Kaduna State Complaint System, a software 
created to bridge in the existing complaint gap between the 
people that are exploited, sexually abused, extorted, as well as 
people with other complaints, say, associated with teachers' 
incompetency, etc, and the relevant authorities. This complaint 
98   
Waziri Junaidu History and Culture Bureau (1973-1976) C/705/I…, pp. 34-36 & 56-
58.99 
G. O. Oneh (2018), “NYSC's Engagement in the Development of Abuja…, p. 150.100 
Interview with Aminu Umar Alkammawa…101
Interview with Mustapha Muhammad Bakori…
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020232
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

102 
channeling system is still accessible at www.kscs.com.ng.
Indeed, such community development projects provide real 
opportunities for impacting positive improvements in rural 
community life by motivating people towards self-help projects 
and reducing overdependence on the government for almost 103 
everything.
Conclusion
Having x-rayed the genesis, nature, activities, challenges and 
impact of CDS groups and corps members' religious societies, 
this chapter concludes that such groups and societies are 
adequately fitted into the rationale of the NYSC scheme. Apart 
from providing the most consistent framework within which 
intersections are maintained during the service year, they – as 
explained in the main- text –help corps members to inculcate 
discipline, develop tradition of industry at work, raise moral 
tone, develop the spirit of self reliance, unlearn prejudices, 
develop sharp minds from shared experiences and develop 
strong ties; because such groups and societies are always 
representatives of Nigeria's cultural and religious diversities, 
and corps members within such groups and societies are always 
assigned to work together. Not only did all these constitute the 
major objectives on the basis of which the NYSC scheme was 
established in 1973, they also feed into the wider essence of 
NYSC's existence – that of sustained commitment towards 
collaboration in achieving peaceful co-existence, unity and 
national development. Moving forward however, the scheme 
ought to be implored to look into the major challenges 
confronting these groups and societies and develop not only a 
framework within which such problems would be solved, but 
the needed commitment and efforts towards solving them. 
102 
Interview with Ayuba Dauda…103
N. Ikharo (24-02-1994), “NYSC and National Development”…
GROUPS AND SOCIETIES IN THE NYSC SCHEME 233
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Bibliography
Akinwunmi, O. et. al. (eds.) (2006), Inter-Group Relations in 
th th 
Nigeria During the 19 and 20 Centuries, Markurdi, Aboki 
Publishers.
Alo, F. (2018), “Retooling Nigeria's Youth Service Corps to Drive 
National Transformation”, https://gga.org/retooling- 
nigeria' s- youth- service- corps- to- drive- national- 
transformation/
Arubayi, D. O. (2015), “Youths in Development: Understanding 
the Contributions of National Youth Service Corps 
(NYSC) to Nigeria's National Development”, PhD Thesis, 
University of Manchester.
Faruk, U. (2011), The Victors and the Vanquished of the Nigerian 
Civil War, 1967-1970: Triumph and Valour over Greed and 
Ambition, Zaria, ABU Press.
Garba, S. et. al. (2016), “An Appraisal of Islamisation Activities of 
Sir Ahmadu Bello 'The Sardaunan Sokoto' Among 
Maguzawa of Northern Nigeria”, in Malumfashi. I. A. et. 
al. (eds.), The Hausa People, Language and History: Past, 
Present and Future, Kaduna, Garkuwa Publishers.
Group interview with Mallam Nura Manir – NYSC Zonal 
Inspector, Katsina Zone & Alhaji Samaila Suleiman – 
nd 
CDS Schedule Officer (2 Sept. 2020), at NYSC 
Secreteriat, Katsina State.
https://nigerianinfopedia.com.ng/addresses-of-nacc-state- 
chapters-in-nigeria/
https://www.mcan.org.ng/about
https://www.nairaland.com/1962105/mcan-muslim-corpers- 
association-nigeria
https://www.nccfnational.com
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020234
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Ikharo, N. (24-02-1994), “NYSC and National Development”, 
The Triumph.
st 
Interview with Abdulwahab Lawal Rafindadi (1 Sept, 2020), ex- 
corps member & former president of Road Safety CDS 
Group, at Rafindadi Primary School, Katsina 
th 
State.Interview with Ayuba Dauda (13 Sept. 2020), an 
ex-corps member and former President of SERVICOM 
Group – Kaduna, at Narayi, Kaduna.
th 
Interview with Badmus Oluwasegun (4 Sept. 2020), Serving 
Corps Member & NYSC Liason Officer for Dala LGA, at 
NYSC Secretariat, Dala LGA, Kano State.
th 
Interview with Aisha B. Bawa (19 Sept. 2020), an ex-corps 
member who served in Owerri Imo State in 1998, at Bado 
area, Sokoto. Interview with Aminu Umar Alkammawa 
th 
(16 Sept. 2020), an ex- corps member and MCAN official 
who served at Abia State in 2005/2006 Service year, at 
Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto.
Interview with Tukur M. Mukhtar, an ex-corps member who 
served at Jama'are, Bauchi State in 2002/2003 Service 
Year, at Dept. of History, Usmanu Danfodiyo University, 
Sokoto.
th 
Interview with Umar M. Jabbi (17 Sept. 2020), an ex-corps 
member who served at Katsina Ala, Benue State in 1987, 
at Department of History, UDU Sokoto.
th 
Interview with Haladu Abubakar (8 Sept 2020), NYSC Staff, at 
NYSC Secretariat, Dala LGA, Kano.
th 
Interview with John Iliya (4 Sept. 2020), Serving Corps Member, 
at Kano State NYSC Secretariat, Dala LGA, Kano State.
th 
Interview with Mustapha Muhammad Bakori (18 Sept. 2020), LI 
– Dutsinma LGA, Katsina State.
GROUPS AND SOCIETIES IN THE NYSC SCHEME 235
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

th 
Interview with Mutuah Joshua (15 Sept. 2020), Assistant 
Director in charge of CDS Department Sokoto, at NYSC 
Secretariat, Kalambaina, Sokoto State.
th 
Interview with Sabo Nana (9 Sept. 2020), Assistant Director – 
CDS Department, NYSC Secretariat, Kano State.
th 
M. Onochie (29 Nov. 2018), “NYSC Warns Corps Members 
A g a i n s t  S k i p p i n g  C D S ,  D a i l y  T r u s t ,  
https://dailytrust.com/nysc- warns-corps-members-
against-skipping-cds
Maishanu, J. N. (August 2006) “Legal Aid Clinic CDS”, Abiakopa 
– End of Service Year Magazine of NYSC Abia State – Batch B 
2005,Vol. 2, No. 8.
National Archives Kaduna (1973) CSA/OFF/148, “National 
Youth Service Corps”.
National Youth Service Corps (2014), ABC of Community 
Development and Special Project Department, Abuja, 
National Youth Service Directorate Headquarters.
National Youth Service Corps (August, 2006), “Has NYSC 
Achieved Its Objectives? - Interview with Mary Dan-
Abia, the State Coordinator of NYSC, Abia State”, 
Abiakopa – End of Service Year Magazine of NYSC Abia State 
– Batch B 2005, Vol. 2, No. 8.
st 
NYSC (21 Sept. 2020) 
NYSC/DHQ/PRs/DIR/CIR/STATE/VOL.II/, “2019 
Batch 'C', Stream 1, Winding-Up/ Passing-Out: 
Approved Activities and Programme.
Oneh, G. O. (2018), “NYSC's Engagement in the Development of 
Abuja, 1982-2011", Rima International Journal of Historical 
Studies, Vol. 1, No. 1.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020236
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Suleiman, S. (2012), “Exhuming Passions: Religion and the 
Emergence of the Middle Belt Struggle in Nigeria”, 
Annual Review of Islam in Africa, Isssue No. 11.
Suleiman, S. (2015), “The Nigerian History Machine and the 
Production of Middle Belt Historiography”. PhD Thesis, 
Dept. of Historical Studies, University of Cape Town,.
Sunday, F. O. (August 2006), “NYSC Charity Services Group 
Donates to Indigent People”, Abiakopa – End of Service 
Year Magazine of NYSC Abia State – Batch B 2005, Vol. 2, 
No. 8.
Usman, M. T. and Zakari, I. A. (2014), “Islamisation Campaigns 
in the Gbayi Areas of Former Minna Chiefdom, 1963-
1965”, in Wuam, T. and Salahu, M. L. (eds.), Aspects of 
Niger State History: Essays in Honour of Professor Ibrahim 
Adamu Kolo, Lapai, IBB University Press.
Waziri Junaidu History and Culture Bureau (1973-1976) C/705/ 
I/420/, “National Youths Service Corps”.Waziri 
Junaidu History and Culture Bureau (1976) c/705 – 
Sokoto/ 1/52/421, “National Youth Service Corps”.
www.nysc.gov.ng/saed.html.
Yandaki, A. I. (1990) “A History of the Izalah Movement in 
Northern Nigeria Up to 1989”, M. A. Dissertation, Dept. of 
History, UDUS.
Yandaki, A. I. (1999), “Corruption and Failure of Democratic 
Rule in Nigeria: A Case Study of a Muslim Religious 
Group's Responses to the Situation”, Being A Paper 
Presentation at the 1999 Annual Religious Studies 
Conference, organized by the Department of Religious 
Studies, University of Ibadan.
GROUPS AND SOCIETIES IN THE NYSC SCHEME 237
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Yandaki, A. I. (2011), “The Changing Nature of Nigerian 
th 
History, 19 Century to the Present”, in Ahmad, S. B. and 
Abdussalam, I. K., Resurgent Nigeria: Issues in Nigerian 
Intellectual History, Ibadan, Ibadan University Press.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020238
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Chapter Nine
THE NYSC COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 
SERVICE: ITS NATURE AND IMPACT
Pascal Onumonu 
Department of History 
Bowen University 
Iwo, Nigeria
Introduction
The Community Development Service (CDS) programme of the 
National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) was borne out of the need 
to provide social services in Nigeria. As at the time the scheme 
was introduced in 1973, the state of basic amenities in Nigeria 1 
was generally poor. In addition, the Nigerian civil war which 
took place from 1967 to 1970 adversely affected the state of social 2 
amenities in various Nigerian communities. The Gowon's 
administration had many socio-political and other national 
challenges to tackle with at that time. Similarly, before the 
introduction of the NYSC, different communities across the 
federation were yet to have the needed amenities which was a 3 
concern for the Gowon's administration.
In view of the challenges experienced after the Nigerian civil 
war, the Gowon's administration considered it important to 
introduce a scheme that will help in healing the wound created 
by the war. It was on this basis that Gowon considered it 
necessary to establish the NYSC scheme. As one of the ways of 
reaching out to Nigerians, CDS was incorporated into the 
scheme as one of its core features. The CDS programme was 
1
NYSC Hand Book, 2015/2016: ABC of CDS. A Publication of the National Youth Service 
Corps-NYSC Community Development Service and Special Project P 12
Achebe, C. (2012), There was a Country, Penguin Press, London. P 96
3 th 
Oral interview with Deacon Osita Obasi on 15 July, 2020, at Nnebukwu Autonomous 
Community, Oguat Local Government Area, South of Oguta Lake, Imo State4
Ibid
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

introduced with the sole aim of raising the standard of various 
communities in Nigeria through the provision of basic amenities 4 
and social services. The programme was designed for the 
benefit of both the urban and rural communities across Nigeria. 
Given the impact of CDS over the years, the scheme can be said 
to be one of the most laudable initiatives of the Nigerian 5 
government in the post Nigerian civil war era. Since the 
establishment of the NYSC programme, the fragile nature of 
Nigeria's foundation has been strengthened in various ways by 
the NYSC Community Development Service as examined 
hereafter. Community services executed by corps members 
across Nigeria have added great value to their host communities 
and brought succor to them in greater measures. Thus, this 
initiative handed over to corps members by the Yakubu 
Gowon's government administration is a veritable tool for 
nation- building which is in tandem with the general principle of 
nation- building as demonstrated by great nations of the world 6 
at different times in human history. Its immense significance 
notwithstanding, NYSC's Community Development Service has 
not been accorded sufficient scholarly attention over the years. 
This chapter thus seeks to fill this lacuna by examining the 
nature and impact of Community Development Service as a vital 
programme of the NYSC scheme.
NYSC and Community Development Service
CDS is one of the four (4) cardinal programmes of the NYSC in 
which corps members contribute positively to the development 
of their host communities throughout the period of national 
service. The scheme has been in the vanguard of the nation's 
drive to correct the imbalance in rural-urban development 
through the various community development programmes 
executed by corps members. These programmes have 
5 
Ige, B. (1995), People, Politics, and Politicians of Nigeria (1940-1979), Heinemann 
Educational Books(Nigeria) Plc, Ibadan. pp. 365-3676
See Acemoglu, D. & Robinson, J. A. (2013), Why Nations Fail: The Origins of Power, 
Prosperity, and Poverty…
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020240
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

revolutionised Nigerian communities in the areas of education, 
health care delivery, agriculture, communication, 
infrastructure, technology, economic empowerment, poverty 
eradication, social services and, above all, national 7
consciousness and socio-cultural regeneration .
Fig. 10: Corpers Offering Medical Services
CDS comprises welfare services, aimed at bettering the lots of 
the host communities. Here, the creativity, innovativeness and 
ingenuity of the young men, and women are harnessed for 
community development which of course impacts the generality 8
of the nation for national development.
Objectives of Community Development Service
The achievements of the NYSC Community Development 
Service clearly shows that it was established to better human 
7 
NYSC Hand Book, 2015/2016: ABC of CDS. A Publication of the National Youth Service 
Corps-NYSC
Community Development Service and Special Project P 18 
OYO KOPA, 2014: A Publication of Press and Public Relations Unit, NYSC, Oyo State. P. 
15
THE NYSC COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT SERVICE: ITS NATURE AND IMPACT 241
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

society through selflessness and imaginative efforts of corps 
9 
members. Corps members have demonstrated their ingenuity 
in this direction in various ways. The most preferred groups for 
the humanitarian service of corps members have been 
communities located in rural areas, which often have limited 
access to facilities enjoyed by urban dwellers. Over the years 
since the establishment of the scheme, this concern has been 
realised to a large extent. On the other hand, community 
development service is considered as a practical platform for 
stirring the minds of young Nigerian youths for self- realisation, 
self-awareness, creativity, imaginative power, ingenuity, self-
10 
reliance, lofty ideas, and great aspiration for greatness in life.
Below are the specific objectives stipulated:
1. Impacting positively on the improvement of rural 
community life
2. Developing the spirit of entrepreneurship in the corps 
members
3. To utilise the challenges which rural development poses and 
inculcate in the Nigerian Youth the ideals and capacities for 
leadership, endurance, selflessness, community service, 
national service, patriotism and creativity
4. Exposing corps members to diverse traditions and customs 
of the host communities
5. Providing the forum for corps members to experiment with 
ideas and translate them into concrete achievements thereby 
relying less on foreign technology and encouraging the use 
of local raw materials in the execution of projects
6. Harnessing the enormous talents and skills of corps 
members into effective machinery of change in rural 
communities 
9 
See: NYSC News, OCDC 342014: A Journal of the NYSC Directorate Headquarters. P.14 10
Oral interview with Professor S.A. Ademola Ajayi of Dept. of History, University of nd 
Ibadan, on 2 August 2020 at Ibadan, Oyo State
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020242
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

7. Providing on-the-job training and experience for corps 
members
8. Providing complimentary service in national development 
activities, by ensuring that under-privileged population 
learn basic techniques for self-help through the appropriate 
technology concept being promoted by the NYSC
9. To instill in corps members the tradition of the dignity of 
labour and productivity
10. To complement the activities of government at all levels in 
11
the stride towards national development
Classification and Nature of Community Development 
Service The management of the NYSC designed the mode of 
operation of the CDS in such a systemic way as to ensure the 
realisation of its objectives.
In other words, the NYSC community service has various forms 
and shapes which could be considered as its nature in terms of 
12 
executions by corps members across different states in Nigeria.
The first in the classification is identified as Group Community 
Development Service (Group CDS). Corps members are 
expected to use one day in a week for CDS activities. Therefore, 
they are not expected to attend such duties in their places of 
primary assignment on CDS days. Such days are dedicated to 
the execution of projects and programmes that will improve the 
living conditions of their host communities. In order to enhance 
the actualisation of the said objectives of community 
development service, corps members are divided into CDS 
13 
groups for exchange of ideas. Table 1 aptly elucidates the point 
being made here.
11
NYSC Hand Book,2015/2016 …P12
Oral interview with Miss Marian Olohunyinka of History and International Studies th 
Dept., Adeleke University, on 17 August 2020 at Ede, Osun State13 
NYSC Hand-Book for 2015/2016… P
THE NYSC COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT SERVICE: ITS NATURE AND IMPACT 243
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020244
Table 6: NYSC CDS, Purpose and Activities
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Source: Researcher's Field work, 2020.
The aforementioned types of CDS are carried out in groups as 
seen above. Based on the nature of this type of community 
service, it requires the combination of ideas, initiatives and 
interests of diverse groups of people as buttressed above. The 
next categorisation is the Personal/Individual Community 
Development Service (Personal/Individual CDS). 
Personal/Individual CDS are projects/programmes 
executed by individual corps members in their host 
communities based on community felt needs. In addition to the 
group CDS, corps members are encouraged to look out for areas 
where they could make an individual impact in the community. 
This could be in the area of construction projects such as building 
of toilets, incinerators, bridges, classrooms, games facilities for 
schools or social/ educational projects such as establishment of 
ICT laboratory, school libraries, extra-mural classes, campaigns, 
charity work and vocational training for the unemployed 
14
youths.
The third category of community service is Collaborative 
Community Development Service. Under the scheme, NYSC 
partners with National and Non-Governmental organisations 
and other establishments to implement development 
programmes. Thus, the organisation signs Memorandum of 
Understanding (MOU) with the partners, clearly stating each 
partner's roles. Corps members are usually involved as 
volunteers on these programmes. Examples of collaborative 
CDS include:
14
NYSC Hand Book, 2015/2016 … P
THE NYSC COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT SERVICE: ITS NATURE AND IMPACT 245
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

• Road Safety Group
• Reproductive Health & HIV. AIDs Group
• Anti-Corruption (EFCC &ICPC) Group
• Service Delivery Group (Attitudinal Change, Re-Branding)
• Millennium Development Goals
• Medical and Health Services Group (Red Cross, Breast 
Without Spot, Polio Plus, etc)
• Drug-Free and Quality Control Group (NDLEA, NAFDAC, 15
SON).
The Philosophy of NYSC Community Development Service
The Nigerian civil war of 1967 to 1970 severely interrupted the 
co- existence of Nigerians. The manner in which the war was 
prosecuted caused much pain, thereby worsening the fragility of 16 
Nigeria's foundation laid by the British. It is a fact that Nigeria 
had challenges before the Nigerian civil war. However, the war 
in itself heightened hatred, disunity, mutual suspicion, 
resentment and all manner of dangerous malicious vices among 17 
Nigerians. At the end of the war therefore, there was the 18     
immediate need to remedy the above national maladies. It is 
upon this premise that the NYSC's philosophy derived its roots 19
and foundation.
In other words, the philosophy behind the creation of CDS 
was borne out of the need to swiftly bring back Nigeria from the 
ashes of the country's civil war. The war was indeed one of the 
darkest episodes in Nigerian history, hence the need to change 20
the atmosphere of disunity at the end of the war.
The philosophy of CDS includes selflessness, sacrifice, 
compassion, hard work, love for humanity and the spirit of 
brotherhood. The corps members are expected to demonstrate 
these noble attributes in the course of their national service to 
15
Ibid16 
NYSC Hand Book, 2015/2016… P17 
Achebe, C. (2012), There was a Country, Penguin Books, London18 
Ibid19
Bourne, R. (2016), Nigeria: A New History of a Turbulent Century, Book Craft, Ibadan P. 10520 
Ibid p 123
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020246
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

their fatherland. First, corps members are encouraged to 
demonstrate selflessness in their immediate host communities 
where they would be exposed to the need of the people. All 
serving corps members, irrespective of their socio-economic 
backgrounds, are obliged to participate in the community 
development service of the NYSC. Also, it is expected of corps 
member to learn these virtues as well as express them as part of 21
their lifestyle after the service year.
From the foregoing, it could be established that the 
philosophy behind CDS goes beyond executing projects. The 
philosophy of the CDS was crafted in such a fashion as to compel 
corps members to imbibe the culture and concept of service to 
humanity. Given the above reality, one could also infer that 
NYSC's doctrine is ultimately geared towards preparing corps 
members for the future with particular focus on nation-building 
with CDS as its cornerstone and modus operandi.
Corps Members and CDS in Perspectives: A Survey
CDS is no doubt a very vital component of the NYSC scheme. It is 
the relevance of CDS that has added much flavour and value to 
the entire NYSC programme. According to Christie J.F Ade 
Ajayi, the NYSC would not have been appreciated this much 
without the flavour CDS fervently gives to the scheme. The 
veteran teacher and wife of the late doyen of History said her 
husband (J.F Ade Ajayi) was the Vice-Chancellor of the 
University of Lagos when the NYSC programme was 
introduced and the undergraduate students at the institution 
(University of Lagos) strongly protested against the scheme but 
later embraced it. According to her, the brilliant results of CDS 
since 1973 are living testimonials across the nooks and crannies 
of Nigeria. This is the reason the scheme has come to stay against 
all odds since its inception, and has also become part and parcel 22
of Nigeria's history and experience.
21 
Amos 3:3 (Bible)22    
Oral Interview with Abigail Bako (A Retired NYSC Official) on 10 August, at Sabon 
Tasha, Kaduna South.
THE NYSC COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT SERVICE: ITS NATURE AND IMPACT 247
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Corroborating the perspective of Christie J.F Ade Ajayi, 
Joseph Ola lamented with a heavy heart that he missed the 
NYSC in 1975 after two years of its establishment for some 
reasons beyond his control. In his opinion, the commitment to 
fatherland through CDS was rather a passionate and patriotic 
engagement he cherished, but did not have the honour and 23 
privilege of being part of. However, his wife, Mrs (Janet 
Olufunmilayo) Ola, who served in Adventist Grammar School, 
Ede, in 1979, participated in the scheme, and belonged to a CDS 24 
group that built a school in Ede. Community Development 
Service could be described as a bridge-builder. According to S.A 
Demola Ajayi, humanitarian services through the CDS of the 
NYSC scheme have taken corps members to many rural areas in 
Nigeria. In his service year in 1982/ 1983 in the old Oyo State but 
now part of Osun State, he affirmed that various CDS groups 
carried out essential services and built some vital social 
amenities or facilities, such as public toilets and roads which 
greatly improved the living standard of the rural dwellers in 
great measures. In his opinion, the first two decades of the 
scheme were highly successful but he maintained that the 
unfolding events in the nation such as terrorism, kidnapping, 
banditry, armed robbery, insecurity of all kinds and a host of 
other events have affected the scheme. S.A Ajayi asserts that the 
commitment of the corps members to CDS endeared them to 
members of their host communities who sometimes had a 
negative perception about their place of origin. Such stereotypes 
were eroded following the expression of kind gestures by corps 
members outside their place of origin. Some corps members 
ended up marrying from their host communities as a result of 
their commitment to CDS which their host communities 
appreciated. From S.A Ajayi's earlier reflections, it could be 
argued that CDS projects have enabled young Nigerians serving 
their fatherland to express milk of kindness. It, therefore, means 
23 th 
Oral Interview with Chief (Mrs) Christie J.F Ade Ajayi on 17 August, 2020, at Bodoja, 
Ibadan, Oyo State, Ibadan24 
Oral interview with Professor Joseph Ola of the Dept. of Religious Studies, Adeleke 
University, Ede, Osun State.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020248
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

that without such gestures from corps members, some negative 
perceptions would have remained with Nigerians permanently.
Musa Dasikwo who served in Bida, Niger State in 
1982/1983, opined that CDS is the 'heart' of the NYSC. 
According to him, various services rendered by corps members 
of his set met the needs of the people which in turn brought 
immeasurable joy in their communities. He, however, noted that 
at that time, individual execution of projects was not as common 
as it is now. Musa added that corps members engaged more on 25
sanitation exercise in public places in different communities.
Olatunji Alao served in Shagamu High School, Ogun State. 
He observed that during his service year in 1984/1985, group 
CDS was more active than personal CDS. He, however, recalled 
that one of his fellow corps members, a graduate of Fine Arts, 
built a sculpture for the school where he served. According to 
Alao, his service year was the period of Buhari/Idiagbon 
military government which placed so much emphasis on 
discipline with particular reference to keeping the environment 
clean always. In this regard, corps members were involved in a 26
weekly clean up exercise in various strategic public places.
There was involvement and demonstration on cleanliness by 
corps members at the time, and this had a positive impact on the 
general public who so much respected and admired corps 
members then. Alao recalled with nostalgia that he single-
handedly ensured the qualification of his students for the finals 
of Principal's Cup (of football competition) among all secondary 
schools in Ogun State in 1988. He also recalled how he had 
regarded himself as the 'unofficial Game Master' of the school. 
The finals took place in the former Asero Stadium, now called 
Moshood Abiola Stadium, in Ogun State. The event was 
significant as the principal of his school who did not believe in 
his optimism later believed him when he single-handedly got his 
students to the football final. Alao believes that CDS plays a 
25 th   
Oral Interview with Mrs Janet Olufunmilayo Ola   on 25 July, 2020 at Ibadan, Oyo 
State26 
Oral Interview with Rev'd Musa Dasikwo of Living Stone Assembly, Sabo, Kaduna th 
South on 16 August, 2020
THE NYSC COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT SERVICE: ITS NATURE AND IMPACT 249
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

critical role in national development considering the activities of 
corps members in various Nigerian communities. The ingenuity 
of corps members, no doubt, breaks social barriers and builds 
bridges of friendship through CDS activities considered as the 27
spice of the NYSC.
Victor Osaro Edo who served in Dennis Memorial Grammar 
School (DMGS), Onitsha, Anambra State, in 1988, appreciated 
the inclusion of CDS into the NYSC programme. According to 
him, during his service year, his CDS group-built bus stop 
pavilions at various strategic locations in Onitsha. He also noted 
that awareness campaigns on various subjects or trending issues 
of concern were carried out by corps members of his set which 
positively impacted on their host community and also made the 28 
NYSC to be accepted by a vast majority of Nigerians. Various 
charity works executed by corps members through CDS is one of 29
the reasons the NYSC is still relevant.
In the same vein, R.O. Olaniyi highly commended the 
management of the NYSC and the initiative behind CDS. Olaniyi 
participated in the NYSC scheme in 1995/1996 at Akwanga, 
Nasarawa State. His involvement in CDS could be regarded as a 
lifetime experience of impact and commitment. According to 
him, his place of primary assignment was a typical rural area 
locked up in deprivation and penury. One noticeable challenge 
he observed upon the assumption of his primary assignment as a 
corps member was the complete lack of interest in western 
education. In other words, the people lived in an enclave, 
completely cut off from the reality of modern life or quest for 
western education. This, he said, moved him to carry out a series 
of awareness campaigns on growing and resuscitating the 
passion for western education which in the end yielded visible 30 
results.
27     
Oral Interview with Dr Olatunji Alao of Dept. of History and International Studies, th 
Adeleke University, Ede, Osun State, on 5 August , 202028
Ibid29 
Oral Interview with Prof. Victor Osaro Edo, Dept. of History, University of Ibadan, on nd 
2 August, 2020 at Ibadan30 
OYO KOPA, 2018: A Publication of Press and Public Relations Unit, NYSC, Oyo State. 
Pp. 47-47
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020250
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Apart from the campaign on the importance of education, 
Olaniyi also drew the attention of his host community towards 
the importance of cleanliness and decent environment. The 
exercise on clean and decent environment improved learning as 
the environment, especially the school surroundings, became 
attractive and conducive for learning. Again, to give the school 
of his primary assignment visibility, Olaniyi constructed a large 
concrete signboard that was mounted on the highway between 31 
Akwanga and Abuja. Kasim Isioma who served in 1994/1995 in 
Bida, Niger State, also offered his best through CDS during his 
service year. Isioma affirmed that CDS is humanity - oriented 
and should be preserved by all means for posterity. He further 
remarked that within the context of Nigeria, the government has 
not been able to meet the needs of the people, especially the 
forgotten rural dwellers wallowing in penury. Isioma, therefore, 
believes that without the intervention of the corps members in 
the form of CDS in Nigeria, a greater percentage of rural 
dwellers would suffer a great deal. He sees CDS as an 
opportunity to provide for poor rural communities held in 32
deprivation across the length and breadth of Nigeria.
O.V. Ekanade served in 1996 within Lagos but has a 
profound view of CDS. According to him, CDS is a promoter of 
humanitarian services as well as builder of unity and harmony. 
His perception was borne out of his keen observation of how 
CDS has helped in building and fostering mutual understanding 
through humanitarian gestures by corps members to the 33 
underprivileged. Tinuola Ekenade served in 1997 in Abuja. He 
opined that: 'CDS is just beautiful'. During her service year, she 
joined an environmental club whose major objective was 34 
advocacy on tree planting. In view of her statement and the 
objective of the club, no one would doubt the importance of her 
31 nd 
Oral Interview with Prof. R.O Olaniye, Dept. of History, University of Ibadan, on 2 August, 
2020 at Ibadan32
Ibid33 
Oral Interview with Isioma Kasim of the Dept. of Languages and Literary Studies, Adeleke 
University, Ede, Osun State on 29th July, 2020, at Ede34 
Oral interview with Prof. O.V. Ekanade of the Dept. of History and International Studies, th 
Redeemers' University, Ede, Osun State on 29 July, 2020 at Ede
THE NYSC COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT SERVICE: ITS NATURE AND IMPACT 251
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

CDS group, knowing the importance of preserving the human 
environment in the face of global warming and the danger it st 
poses to human existence in the 21 century. Samuel 
Ifechukwudi Sylvanusserved in Kibiya, Kano State, and 
functioned as the CLO of the Local Government in 2002. He 
noted that various groups executed projects that touched the 
lives of the talakawas (commoners). Based on Kano's poverty 
rate, corps members who had the vision of touching lives used 
the opportunity to execute projects that had direct impact on 
their host communities. In the light of this, corps members 
executed different projects such as the building of public toilets, 
refurbishment/ construction of classrooms, donation of 
desks/chairs to schools, donation of wheelchairs to physically 35
challenged persons and a host of other humanitarian services.
Elijah Uche Okoh served in Wudil, Kano State, in 2006/2007. 
According to him, the importance of CDS to Nigerian 
communities cannot be overemphasised in view of its national 
impact. Elijah's experience was profound and has permanently 
become a part of his living memory. He expresses his 
overwhelming pleasure with regards to his CDS experience as 
follows:
I am overwhelmingly grateful to God and the NYSC for 
the privilege of being able to participate in community 
development service of the NYSC. During my service 
year, I was fully involved in CDS and even functioned 
as the Vice President of the Road Safety Group in Wudil, 
Kano State. In my honest estimation, CDS is a way of 
giving back to society through different projects such as 
establishment of social amenities and creating 
awareness on important aspects of human life. Among 
then, as corps members, were different professionals 
based on the courses they studied in the university and 
other higher institutions of learning. The knowledge of 
those fields was translated into service that improved 
35 th   
Oral Interview with Dr Tinuola Ekanade at Ibadan, Oyo State on 13 August 2020
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020252
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

the well-being of our host communities. Different 
sensitive topics were tactically handled during our 
awareness campaigns. For example, our colleagues in 
the medical line carried out all kinds of awareness 
campaigns on HIV/AIDS, child marriage or early 
marriage, child spacing, female circumcision, malaria, 
typhoid, hygiene, decent environment and a host of 
other issues. Medically, the awareness campaigns 
helped in reducing maternal mortality rate, HIV/AIDS 
infection and other health- related challenges. The 
awareness of sex, or sex education as it were, 
emphasised the need to avoid pre-marital sex or 
unprotected sex as the case may be. Based on this 
exercise, members of our host communities learnt how 
to have safe sex without getting infected with HIV/ 
AIDS or other sexually transmitted diseases.   Those of 
us in the Road Safety Group embarked on controlling 
traffic on their market days which was also their prayer 
day (Fridays). Fridays were usually busy days. Before 
our intervention, there were high records of road 
accidents occasioned by the recklessness of road users, 
which led to deaths and confusion. Our ability to 
organise the people, vehicular moments and their 
excesses brought order to the entire community as well 
as reduced incidents of accidents being experienced 
before our arrival. Given our conduct and performance, 
the mai angwa (district head) highly commended us for a 36
job well done.
Elijah's account reveals that the CDS is very critical for the 
sustainability of Nigeria's communities. Given its impact, also, it 
could be argued that the CDS is one of the highly commendable 
measures deployed for nation-building in the post-Nigerian 
civil war era through NYSC programmme. CDS is no doubt, 
charity- oriented with the far-reaching influence that cuts across 
36
Oral Interview with Elder Samuel Sylvanus of Major Light Consult, Kaduna, Kaduna State, 
on 18 July, 2020, at Kaduna South, Kaduna State
THE NYSC COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT SERVICE: ITS NATURE AND IMPACT 253
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

the beneficiaries and benefactors. This implies that as a building 
material for nation-building, CDS costs less, compared to other 
alternatives that require so much yet make little or no impact. 
The timeless impact of CDS on Nigeria's communities across her 
six(6) geo-political zones as captured in this study deserves 
more attention and further research. The embodiment of 
knowledge embedded in the CDS programme is an invaluable 
intellectual capital for Nigeria if properly utilised. CDS 
programme could be re-branded with more fascinating ideas 
through research work and sold to other nations with similar 
history and experience such as Nigeria.
Still on the contribution of CDS to Nigerian communities, 
Ugo P. Onumonu served in 2006/2007 at Andy Comprehensive 
College, Marish, at Bokkos Local Government Area, Plateau 
State, and carried out some personal CDS that endeared him to 
the Forof community.His CDS consisted of 10 wheelchairs at the 
cost of N20, 000 (twenty thousand naira) each and donation of 
textbooks to the library worth N100, 000. This brought succor to 
the physically challenged persons that benefited from the 
gesture, while the students of Andy Comprehensive College 
began to enjoy a robust study which improved their academic 
performance, especially those of them who were preparing for 
WAEC, NECO and JAMB. Sylvester Shima Kohol asserted that 
the initiative behind the CDS is unarguably the best action taken 
by Gowon and no subsequent government could boast of having 
a similar idea. Kohol served in Army Comprehensive High 
School, Owena Barracks, Akure in Ondo State. Kohol presided 
over Corper Peer Educator Trainers (c-pet), a group that 
advocated the awareness of Reproductive Health and 
HIV/AIDS, as well as the training of other peer educators within 
the community. As a coordinator and Secretary of HIV group, he 
was involved in a series of campaigns and organising seminars 
on very topical issues, such as HIV, unprotected sex and other 
health-related matters. According to Kohol, the principal of the 
school where he served opposed the idea of setting up a peer 
educator programme in the school at its initial stage, on the 
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020254
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

ground that students at the junior classes were too young for 
such sensitive matters on sex education. However, after much 
persuasion, he agreed and when the initial investigation was 
carried out, they discovered that a good number of the said 
'innocent junior students' had been exposed to diverse sex 
behaviour already. The revelation rattled the school 
management and they began to take quick measures in arresting 
the unpleasant development. Kohol's CDS group also extended 
their campaign activities among soldiers in 323 Artillery 
Regiment of Owena Barracks and the outcome/ impact were 37
worthwhile.
In 2013, Orans Joy Adaeze sunk two boreholes in Tilli, a 
community in Bunza Local Government Area of Kebbi State as 38 
part of her community development service while Chijioke 
Amaka Okereke who served at Government Secondary School, 
Kofar Yandaka, provided educational materials worth over one 
million five hundred thousand naira to three schools in Kastina. 
Government Day Secondary School, Kofar Yandaka received 80 
three-seats metal seats and a three-room toilet. Shema 
Community School for the Deaf, Daura, got 30 pieces of treated 
mosquito nets, 28 dozen packets of biros and pencils while the 39 
School of the Blind, Kastina, received 10 Braille typewriters.
Ibrahim Godwin Shekwotayawoza who served in Ohafia Model 
Girls' School, Amaekpu in Ohafia Local Government Area, 
emerged as the best corps member of Abia State in 2013. He 40 
established an ICT centre and fully equipped it. Alozie Chima, a 
Batch 'C' corps member donated two wheel chairs to physically 
challenged persons in Dutse, Jigawa State. Fifteen corps 
members of Batch 'A' were honoured in Delta State in 2013 by the 
State government. They were commended for their 
37 
Oral Interview with Dr Elijah Uche Oko of Dept. of Physics, Alex Ekwueme Federal 
University, Ndufu Alike Ikwo, Ebonyi State. Also see: OYOKOPA, 2017. A Publication of 
Press and Public Relations Unit, NYSC, Oyo State. P.11638
Oral Interview with Slyvester Shima Kohol of Dept. of History and International th 
Studies, Redeemers' University, Ede, Osun State, 0n 10 August, 2020 at Ede, Osun State39   
NYSC News. SPOC 332014: A Journal of the NYSC Directorate Headquarters p. 1640   
NYSC News. SPOC  332014: A Journal of the NYSC Directorate Headquarters. P.40
THE NYSC COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT SERVICE: ITS NATURE AND IMPACT 255
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

contributions to the provision of primary health care, 
enlightenment programme on HIV/AIDS, environmental 
beautification and vocational training. The Governor said, 
'There is no doubt that youhave impacted positively on the well-
being of the rural communities where most of you served'.In 
2013, Rilwan Ibrahim built an information Centre for Jigawa 42 
State Polytechnic as his personal community service. In 2013 in 
Bayelsa State, the corps member of the year was recognised for 
establishing a computer Training Centre in Community 
Secondary School, Enwelesuo, a riverine community. Among 
other things, he also embarked on sensitisation exercises on 42
malaria, HIV/AIDs and other lofty initiatives.
In a bid to contribute towards improving the standard of 
education, Olafimihan Olaniyi constructed a modern library at 
Koroama Community in Yenagoa Local Government Area of 
Bayelsa State. The library, stocked with books for Junior and 43 
Senior Secondary Students, was also computerised.
Omanudhowho E. Kennedy who served in Abuja donated 50 
wheelchairs to physically challenged persons in Kuchingoro, a 44 
community in the territory. Three corps members who served 
in Benue State in 2014 executed projects worth N 1,067,000.00 
and handed them to their communities. Precious Ijinagha, Ume 
Ijika Kalu and Khadijat Abubakar were the corps members in 
question. Precious constructed a food canteen at her place of 
primary assignment, Cross College, Ugba, Logo Local 
Government Area, Kastina –Ala Zone. Ajike fabricated a palm 
oil processing machine and donated it to his place of primary 
assignment, the Commercial Crop Farm Department of the 
University of Agriculture, Makurdi, Makurdi Zone, while 
Khadijat erected a modern toilet facility at Otukpa Community 
Secondary School in Ogbadibo Local Government Area where 45
she served.
41 
Ibid. 5742 
NYSC. MAJJ 322014: A Journal of the NYSC Directorate Headquarters. P. 4243
Ibid. p 4844   
Ibid p.7145   nd   
NYSC News, JAFMA 362015:42 Anniversary Commemorative Edition. P.29
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020256
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Also notable was the contribution of Uduma Eberechi 
Confidence who built a block of three classrooms and two offices 
for the Community Secondary School, Ozi, in Konton-Karfe 46 
Local Government Area of Kogi State in 2014. Before her 
intervention, the benefitting school had to wait for the 
government primary school in the community to close every day 
to be able to use the school facility for their studies in the 
afternoon. A blind corps member in 2014, Ukaogo Nwabueze 
Williams set up a special computer training laboratory in the 47 
School for the Blind, Afaraukwu Umuahia, Abia State. Tomiwa, 
a corps member in 2014, carried out eight different projects 
including a borehole at Lubere, Odeda Local Government, Ogun 48 
State. Tukura Shalom Grace also provided a borehole for the 
Barracks of the Divisional Police Headquartes in Birnin Kebbi 49 
State Capital in 2014. Solomon Aribiyi in Imo State donated 
drugs and other items worth thousands of naira to pupils and 
teachers of Umualum Primary school in Owerri West Local 
Government Area. Ekikere Udoka who served with Akamkpa 
Local Government Council constructed a tank stand, donated a 
reservoir tank and connected taps to Base Camp, Isong Inyang 50 
community in Akamkpa. Ujunwa Anene was a corps member 
in 2014 who served with General Electric, Calabar. He handed a 
project worth over 1 million naira to schools in the community 
where he served. The projects are: renovation of the two 
secondary schools' libraries and equipping them with textbooks. 51
In the same manner of impacting both institutions and rural 
communities, Peter Ndubuisi who served in 2015 in Plateau 
State College of Education, Gindiri, Mango, Plateau State, 
explains his experience as follows: 
46 
Ibid. p. 4247 
NYSC News, JAFMA 2015: A Journal of the NYSC Directorate Headquarters. P. 3748 
Ibid p. 4149 
Ibid p. 6150 
Ibid 6951
CROSSKOPA: 2015 Batch 'B' End of Service Year Magazine. P. 14
THE NYSC COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT SERVICE: ITS NATURE AND IMPACT 257
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

My service year was awesome at Gindiri in Plateau 
State where I had the opportunity of serving as the 
Chair, Project Committee, among my fellow corps 
members. We identified the need of the people, 
especially those in the larger community outside the 
school environment, and met them as much as we 
could. Awareness campaigns were carried out on 
important issues like; peer pressure, academic success. 
We rehabilitated 5 boreholes, sunk 1 fresh bore hole and 
carried out skills acquisition training for both students 
and members of the larger community outside the four 52
walls of schools.
Uchechi Dike served in 2015/2016 at Christ Ascension Middle 
School, Osogbo, Osun State. He maintained that CDS supplies 
the needs of rural communities who often live in abject poverty. 
She narrates her experience with regards to CDS as follows:
Nigeria is too large, as such the government alone 
cannot reach out to everyone. My involvement in CDS 
was an eye-opener to the realities of life especially on 
the ordeals of the downtrodden in the rural 
communities. During my service year, I was part of the 
NYSC band. Given the function of my group, we were 
often requested to accompany any CDS group 
embarking on any CDS exercise. Our function was to 
entertain and catch people's attention. The very task 
exposed me to so many heart touching events. We were 
able to donate the following to rural communities: 
public toilets, boreholes, medical care and a host of 53
other essential services.
th 
As part of the event marking Nigeria's 54 independence 
anniversary, the Economic and Financial Crime Commission 
Community Development Service group (EFCC, CDS) visited 
52     
CROSSKOPA: 2015 Batch 'B'... P. 1653 
Oral Interview with Innocent Ndubuisi Peters of Religious Studies Dept., Adeleke th 
University, Ede, Osun State, on 10 August, 2020 at Ede, Osun State.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020258
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

the satellite prison Garu Dutse, Jigawa State, where they 54 
donated relief materials for the rehabilitation of the inmates.
Also, Folashade Daramola who served in Ikom, Cross Rivers 
State in 2016/2017 shared a similar sentiment with Uchechi. 
Folashade affirmed that CDS offered her the opportunity of 
touching the lives of people she met from different cultural 
backgrounds, which to her was most gratifying. AstheSecretary 
of her CDS group (Culture and Tourism), Folashade 
spearheaded some humanitarian activities from which their 
host community gained tremendously. Some of their services to 
the community include awareness campaigns on how to 
improve sanitation in the community, campaign on the need to 
embrace western education, campaign on the benefit of unity in 
Nigeria, campaign on the benefit of ethnic diversity in Nigeria, 
campaign on the dignity of labour and a host of other social 55
services.
Apart from the group CDS, Folashade taught some members 
of the community skills on interior decoration management and 
event planning free of charge. As a result of the trust built in her, 
children of the community were released to her warm embrace 
for constant mentoring and nurturing throughout the period of 56 
her service year. Then there was Chiamobi Awucha who served 
in Government Day Secondary School, Yola South, in 2016/201. 
He affirmed the invaluable significance of CDS to host 
communities. As a member of the Red Cross, he witnessed many 
kind-hearted services carried out by corps members in Yola 
South where he served. He identified some of them as awareness 
campaign on drug abuse, free medical check-up to the general 
public, medical care to the physically-challenged persons and a 57
host of other activities.
54 th 
Oral Interview with Uchechi Dike, Adeleke University, Ede, Osun State, on 11 August, 
2020 at Ede, Osun State.55 
NYSC News, OCDC 342014: A Journal of the NYSC Directorate Headquarters. P1056 
Oral Interview with Folashade Daramola of the Dept of History and International th 
Studies, Bowen University, Iwo, Osun State, on 9 August, 2020 at Iwo, Osun State.57 
Ibid
THE NYSC COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT SERVICE: ITS NATURE AND IMPACT 259
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

In 2017 in Oyo State, the NYSC Medical Community 
Development Service (CDS) group conducted an outreach at 
Mercy Land comprehensive Academy Ogbomoso on the 'Health 
Effects of Substance Abuse'. In a bid to cushion the effect of lack 
of potable water, Iyanuoluwa executed some personal CDS 
which included digging of portable standard well with a 
pumping machine after which a 1000 litres water storage tank 
was mounted. She also gave the community insecticide and 58 
treated mosquito nets. In the same vein, Oyenike Ajayi with 
Delsu Investment Limited, Delta State University, Abraka 
constructed a borehole, and donated a generator set to power the 
borehole in Oria, Abraka, with copies of s booklet titled 'Practical 
Guide to Catering-A do it yourself approach'. She also 
constructed a metallic traffic control stand and office door tag for 
Delsu Investment Limited Offices, where she did her Primary 59 
Assignment. Similarly, Tukur Buratai commissioned an urban 
water treatment plant built by army and the NYSC corps 
engineer at the 82 Division Nigerian Army, Enugu, Enugu State 
in 2018 for the benefit of the generality of the public within the 
community. According to Tukur:
… Apart from supplying water to the cantonment and 
the public, the plant which is producing one million 
litres of water a day will also supply water to the NYSC 
Orientation Camp, Awgu during corps members' 
orientation exercise as part of the Division's social 60
responsibility.
Adejumo Funmilayo Precious opined that CDS is the core of 
NYSC given its contribution to society. Adejumo served in Ojoo, 
Ibadan, Oyo State, and executed her personal CDS in Army Day 
Secondary School, Ojoo, Ibadan in 2020. According to her, the 
deplorable state of the above school was what burdened her 
58    th
Oral Interview with Chimaobi Awucha of Adeleke University, Ede, Osun State, on 5
August, 2020 at Adeleke University, Ede, Osun State.59     
OYOKOPA Magazine. 2018: A Publication of Press and Public Relations Unit, NYSC, Oyo 
State. P. 1960 
NYSC News, 0CDC 342014: A Journal of the NYSC Directorate Headquarters. P. 52
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020260
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

with depression and concern. She, thereafter, expressed concern 
for the future of the students who were subjected to learning on a 
most terrible atmosphere. Precious thereafter approached the 
necessary stakeholders for financial support to fix the entire 
school. Some of the students sat on the bare ground. The 
windows, doors, chairs, ceilings, walls, and virtually everything 
was in a complete state of mess and dilapidation. That, indeed, 
required a complete renovation which gulped about a million 
naira. Following her compassion and tenacity which brought 
her dreams to realisation, Adejumo emerged as the 'Best Corps 
Member' of the year in Oyo State in 2020. Indeed, the 
achievement of Adejumo aligns with the goals of the CDS 61
programme in Nigeria since its inception.
On the whole, one of the changes Adejumu brought to the 
school is an improved learning environment through her CDS. 
The transformation her CDS brought enhanced learning for the 
students which they had missed for many years. It was on this 
basis that Precious deserved the NYSC State award she won.
Impact of CDS on Host Communities and National 
Development 
Most rural communities lack basic amenities, hence they usually 
got the first consideration in the NYSC postings up to the 1990s. 
Based on the design of the programme, corps members are 
trained to integrate themselves into the community of their host 
as well as seek to address their various challenges. Since the 
inception of the NYSC, Nigerian youths upon graduation from 
various tertiary institutions have deployed skills, talents and 
selflessness in this direction, which has indeed yielded 
enormous result. Be that as it may, it is discouraging to state that 
in the recent years, the fortunes of CDS has dwindled due to the 
present socio-political challenges being faced by Nigeria. 
Consequently, parents always select where their children would 
be posted to for their national obligation, contrary to the 
61 
NYSC News, JUAUS432017: A Journal  of the NYSC Directorate Headquarters. P 59
THE NYSC COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT SERVICE: ITS NATURE AND IMPACT 261
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

traditional philosophy of the scheme. Posting to the rural areas is 
becoming fast unattractive and endangered as a result of 
growing insecurity in the country. This trend is gradually 
becoming the norm, thereby making a large chunk of corps 
members to serve in the cities. This growing challenge is, 
unfortunately, denying most present corps members the real 
experience/inspiration for humanitarian services in form of 
CDS. Meanwhile, the CDS is arguably the reason the NYSC has 
retained its character as a factor in community development. 
Moreover, in some cases, the CDS activities of the corps 
members are seen as an extension of government projects to 62 
some villages. The records of CDS have proven that most of the 
projects addressed the human need of water through the sinking 
boreholes. Ironically, even communities in the cities are not 
exempted from the challenges of medical health care which the 
NYSC through CDS takes care of. In line with the foregoing, the 
Vice Chairman of Arochukwu Local Government Area of Abia 
State, Daniel Abba, commended the NYSC scheme for its Health 
Initiative for Rural Dwellers Programme, which caters for the 63
medical and health needs of the less privileged in the society.
Having examined the CDS programme from its formative 
days till date, it must also be stablished that CDS has had its own 
challenges over the years. For example, some corps members 
have used the platform of CDS to enrich themselves in 
collaboration with non-governmental organisations, 
government agencies and, in some cases, NYSC officials. Such 
corps members are also in the habit of using the CDS as an excuse 
64 
for staying away from their places of primary assignments.
Peace Otonihu, an ex-corps member who served at Ajayi 
Crowther University, Oyo State, in 2020, further shed light on 
62
Oral Interview with Adejumo Funmilayo Precious on 14 August, 2020, at Ibadan, Oyo 
State.63 
See: OYO KOPA, 2014: A Publication of Press and Public Relations Unit, NYSC, Oyo 
State.
P. 1164
NYSC News, JUAUS432017: A Journal of the NYSC Directorate Headquarters.  P. 62
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020262
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

the challenges of CDS. Peace opined that projects executed by 
corps members are often times affected by lack of proper 
65 
maintenance. In her own opinion, such reality had in time past 
discouraged some corps members from venturing into major 
66 
CDS for communities they are posted to. Without doubt, the 
problem of maintenance culture is a general challenge which 
affects government at various levels in Nigeria. The NYSC 
management in her wisdom should proffer a solution to this 
problem in order to encourage serving and prospective corps 
members in the execution of CDS. This observation is highly 
important considering the place of CDS in national development 
as examined in this research.
Conclusion
The NYSC Community Development Service has recorded far- 
reaching impact across different communities in Nigeria. The 
strength and ingenuity of Nigerian youths have been massively 
deployed and utilised for the propagation of CDS over the years 
with an undiluted passion for excellence. Members of 
communities living in extreme deprivation have at different 
times benefited from laudable CDS projects that have greatly 
improved their total well- being. Some communities left in total 
darkness of ignorance and ignominy due to their disconnection 
from the larger Nigerian community since independence (1960) 
have received the attention of 'government ambassadors' 
through CDS projects in one way or the other. Common features 
of CDS projects have been 'sinking of borehole', upgrading of 
primary/secondary schools with social amenities and 
educational facilities in the city and rural communities. Thus, 
such developmental projects have brought great relief, 
immeasurable joy and comfort to the rural communities. While 
medical services of corps members through CDS have been 
65 
Oral interview with Kohol Shima…66 nd 
Oral interview with Peace Otonihu of University of Lagos, Lagos State, on 2
September, 2020 at Adeleke University, Ede, Osun State
THE NYSC COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT SERVICE: ITS NATURE AND IMPACT 263
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

received with overwhelming joy, other awareness campaigns on 
social and educational matters have been much cherished. There 
is hardly any community in Nigeria, irrespective of its location, 
that has not benefitted from CDS projects executed by corps 
67 
members.
The intervention of corps members through CDS have 
helped in improving the living standard of communities in 
Nigeria as reflected in this research. This is vital, as no nation 
survives if its component units are not healthy. On a final note, 
the involvement of corps members in CDS gives them 
fulfillment, a sense of purpose, drive and direction for life after 
the NYSC programme. Indeed, it means that corps members' 
engagement in CDS raises their consciousness towards human 
needs in their environment and also increases their rate of 
empathy for humanity, especially the underprivileged. The 
study also established the fact that CDS helps in framing the 
minds of corps members towards becoming purposeful leaders.
References
Oral Interview with Professor S.A. Ademola Ajayi of the Dept. of 
nd 
History, University of Ibadan, on 2 August, 2020 at 
Ibadan, Oyo State
Oral Interview with Professor Victor Osaro Edo of the Dept. of 
nd 
History, University of Ibadan, Oyo State, on 2 August, 
2020 at Ibadan, Oyo State
Oral Interview with Professor R.O. Olaniye of the Dept. of 
nd 
History, University of Ibadan, Oyo State, on 2 August, 
2020 at Ibadan Oyo State
Oral Interview with Miss Mariam Olohunyinka of the Dept. of 
History and International Studies, on 17th August, 2020 at 
Ede, Osun State
Oral Interview with Abigail Bako (A Retired NYSC Official) on 
th 
10 August, at Sabon Tasha, Kaduna South, Kaduna State
67
Ibid
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020264
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Oral Interview with Chief (Mrs) Christie J.F Ade Ajayi (A retired 
th 
Veteran Teacher) on 17 August, 2020 at Bodija, Ibadan, 
Oyo State
Oral Interview with Professor Joseph Ola of the Dept. of 
Religious Studies, Adeleke University, Ede, Osun State on 
th 
6 July, at Ede, Osun State
Oral Interview with Rev'd Musa Dasikwo of Living Stone 
th 
Assembly, Sabon Tasha, Kaduna South, Kaduna, on 20
August at Kaduna South, Kaduna
Oral Interview with Dr Olatunji Alao of the Dept. of History & 
International Studies, Adeleke University, Ede, Osun 
th 
State, on 29 August, at Ede, Osun State
Oral Interview with Isioma Kasim of the Dept. of Languages and 
Literary Studies, Adeleke University, Ede, Osun State, on 
th 
29 July, 2020
Oral Interview with Professor R.U Ekenade of the Dept. of 
History & International Studies, Redeemers' University, 
th 
Ede, Osun State, at Ede, on 29 July, 2020
Oral Interview with Dr Tinuola Ekenade at Ibadan, Oyo State, on 
th 
13 August, 2020
Oral Interview with Elder Samuel Slyvanus of Major Light, 
th 
Kaduna, Kaduna State, on 18 July, 2020 at Kaduna South, 
Kaduna
Oral Interview with Dr Elijah Uche Oko of Dept of Physics, 
Faculty of Science, Alex Ekwueme Federal University, 
Ndufu Alike Ikwo, Ebonyi State
Oral Interview with Sylvester Shima Kohola of Dept of History 
& International Studies, Redeemers' University, Ede Osun 
th 
State, on 25 August, 2020 at Ede
Oral Interview with Uchechi Dike of Adeleke University, Ede, 
th 
Osun State,  on 11 August, 2020, at Ede, Osun State
Oral Interview with Folashade Daramola of the Dept. of History 
and International Studies, Bowen University, Iwo, Osun 
THE NYSC COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT SERVICE: ITS NATURE AND IMPACT 265
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

th 
State, on 9 August, 2020 at Iwo, Osun StateOral Interview 
with Chimaobi Awucha of Adeleke University, Ede, Osun 
th 
State, on 5 August, 2020 at Adeleke University, Ede, Osun 
State
Oral Interview with Innocent Ndubuisi Peters of Religious 
th 
Studies Dept., Adeleke University, Ede, Osun State, on 10
August, 2020 at Ede, Osun State
th 
Oral Interview with Adejumo Funmilayo Precious on 14
August, 2020, at Ibadan, Oyo State
Oral Interview with Professor Ikenna Kamalu of English Studies 
th 
Dept., University of Port Harcourt, Rivers States, on 5
September, 2020, at Port Hacourt
th 
Oral Interview with Deacon Osita Obasi, on 15 July, 2020, at 
Nnebukwu Autonomous Community, Oguta Local 
Government Area, South of Oguta Lake, Imo State
th 
Oral Interview with Mrs Janet Olufunmilayo Ola on 25 July, 
2020 at Ibadan, Oyo State
Oral Interview with Peace Otonihu of University of Lagos, Lagos 
nd 
State, on 2 September, 2020 at Adeleke University, Ede, 
Osun State
NYSC News, OCDC 342014: A Journal of the NYSC Directorate 
Headquarters
NYSC News, SPOC332014: Journal of the NYSC Directorate 
Headquarters
NYSC. MAJJ 322014: A Journal of the NYSC Directorate 
Headquarters
nd 
NYSC News, JAFMA 362015: 42 Anniversary Commemoration 
Edition
NYSC News, JAFMA 2015: A Journal of the NYSC Directorate 
Headquarters
NYSC News, OCDC32014: A Journal of the NYSC Directorate 
Headquarters
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020266
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC News, OCDC 342014: A Journal of the NYSC Directorate 
Headquarters
NYSC News, JUAUS 432017: A Journal of the NYSC Directorate 
HeadquartersOYOKOPA, 2014: A Publication of Press 
and Publications Unit, NYSC, OYO State.
OYOKOPA, 2017. A Publication of Press and Public Relations 
Unit, NYSC,Oyo State
OYOKOPA, 2018: Publication of Press and Public Relations 
Unit, NYSC, Oyo State
OYOKOPA Magazine. 2018: A Publication of Press and Public 
Relations Unit, NYSC, Oyo State
NYSC Hand Book, 2015/2016: NYSC Community Development 
Service and Special Project, Titled: ABC of CDS
CROSSKOPA: 2015 Batch 'B' End of Service Year Magazine 
Acemoglu, D. & Robinson, J.A. (2013), Why Nations Fail: 
The Origins
of Power, Prosperity, Profile Books, London
Anene, C.J. & Brown, G. (eds.) (1966), Africa in the Nineteenth & 
Twentieth Centuries, Ibadan University Press, Ibadan
Achebe, C. (2012), There was a Country, Penguin Books, London 
Bourne, R. (2016), Nigeria: A New History of a Turbulent 
Century, BookCraft, Ibadan
Fage, J.D & Tordoff, W. (eds.) (1978), A History of Africa, 
Hutchinson & Co. (Publishers) Ltd
Ige, B. (1995), People, Politics and Politicians of Nigeria (1940-1979),
Heinemann Educational Books (Nigeria) Plc, Ibadan Ilevbare, 
J.A. (1980) Carthage, Rome and Berbers: A Study of Evolution 
in Ancient North Africa, Ibadan University Press, Ibadan
Llewllyn, T. Images, P., Tufankjian, S., etal (2009), Change We Can 
Believe in : Barrack Obama's Plan to Review America's Promise, 
Cannogate Books, New York
Meredith, M. (2005), The State of Africa, The Fresh Press, London. 
Pp 2-3
THE NYSC COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT SERVICE: ITS NATURE AND IMPACT 267
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Robinson, R., Gallagher, J., & Denny, A., (2015), Africa and the 
Victorians: The Official Mind of Imperialism, I.B. Tauris & Ltd, 
LondonReid, R. (2012), A History of Modern Africa 1800 to 
the Present, John Wiley & Sons Limited, West Sussex
Yew, L.K. (2000), From Third World to First, Harper Collins 
Publishers, New York
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020268
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

SECTION THREE: 
GROWTH DEVELOPMENT 
AND TRENDS
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Chapter Ten
TRANSFORMATIONS IN NYSC
David Imbua
Department of History & International Studies 
University of Calabar
Calabar, Nigeria.
Introduction nd 
Established by Decree 24 of 22 May, 1973, the National Youth 
Service Corps (NYSC) was designed as an interventionist 
agency aimed at accelerating the healing processes of a country 
battered by a gruesome thirty-month civil war that left millions 
of casualties in its wake. Emerging from the throes of the 
fratricidal conflict in an environment that was still hostile and 
ethnically-charged, many people doubted, opposed and 
1 
misrepresented the noble motives of the scheme. University 
students and their parents/guardians were in the vanguard of 
the apprehension and opposition. Among several other reasons 
for the apathy to the Scheme was the reluctance of parents to 
have their children/wards work in places far away from “home” 
in a country that was largely disunited. Although the war had 
ended some years earlier, many parents feared that law and 
2 
order could easily break down with devastating consequences.
In some parts of the country, the corps member was thought to 
be a spy of the Federal Government. Irrespective of what the 
initiators of the Scheme and their supporters said, some people 
in the educationally more advanced southern Nigeria believed 
that the Scheme was designed to solve the acute shortage of 
skilled and skillful manpower in the North. The litany of 
1
Interview with Professor Joseph Ushie, 62 years, Department of English, University of 
Uyo, AkwaIbom State, 04/08/2020.2 
Gregory Enegwea and Gabriel Umoden (1993), NYSC: Twenty Years of National Service 
(Lagos: Gabumo Press), p.17.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

assumptions, fears and biases, bred largely by ignorance, 
insularity and prejudices, produced the opposite result, which 
left the government in no doubt that the Scheme was imperative.
Today, the same programme which some ill-informed 
persons wrote off at inception has become synonymous with 
n a t i o n a l  u n i t y ,  r u r a l  d e v e l o p m e n t  a n d  y o u t h  
3
empowerment. From a humble beginning in 1973, with 2346 
corps participants, the Scheme currently mobilizes about 
300,000 young Nigerians yearly for service, and has become 
arguably the largest youth mobilization agency in the world. 
The number of participants has truly leapt into hundreds of 
thousands yearly, culminating into four million, six hundred 
and forty-four thousand, eight hundred and four (4,644,804) 
4 
participants as at August 2019. Thus, from its modest beginning, 
the NYSC Scheme like a mustard seed has grown into a giant oak 
tree. It is in the context of its peculiar history and progress that 
we could appreciate the Scheme's phenomenal growth from its 
5 
“turbulent infancy to become a handsome child of promise.”
Despite the vicissitudes and challenges that the scheme has 
faced over the years, it has emerged as one of Nigeria's most 
enduring social institutions that has kept faith with its mission of 
mobilizing and grooming graduate youths for the promotion of 
national unity, sustainable developments, self-reliance and 
preparing them for leadership and nation building. For close to 
five decades, the NYSC programme has succeeded in bringing 
together young people from various parts of Nigeria and those 
in diaspora to share experiences and by so doing break barriers 
6
of national unity and integration.
3 + 
Interview with Mr. BusariDaudau, 50 years, Head of Archives, NYSC National 
Headquarters, Abuja, 10/08/20204 
Brig. Gen. S. Ibrahim (2019), Address by the Director-General, NYSC at the Media Parley th 
with Editors, Bureau Chiefs and Youth Correspondents held on Thursday, 15 August, 
2019 at Barcelona Hotel, Abuja, P.5.5 
Samuel O. Asein (1993), Call to Service: Twenty Years of the National Youth Service Corps 
Scheme, 1973-1993 (Ibadan: Sam Bookman), p.3.6 
Chief Gregory Anyia, Retired Directorof NYSC,interviewed at Ogoja, Cross River State, 
02/ 08/2020
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020278
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Though the NYSC has remained committed to its four 
cardinal programmes: Orientation Course, Primary 
Assignment, Community Development Service (CDS) and 
Winding-Up/ Passing-Out Programme, the Scheme has 
witnessed a raft of transformations, changes and/or innovations 
in the past 47 years. Being a dynamic and innovative 
organization that aligns its activities and policies with the 
demands of the operating environment, the NYSC has 
prospered and expanded considerably almost beyond 
recognition by those who conceived it in the early 1970s. From 
inception to date, the Scheme has had eighteen dynamic Chief 
Executives: Col. AA Ali, Col. SK Omojokun, Col PK Obasa, Brig. 
Gen. EA Akpan, Col A Braimoh, Brig. Gen. HB Momoh, Brig. 
Gen. SA Sofoluwe, Brig. Gen. SM Dule, Brig. Gen. KO 
Ogunkoya, COMPOL SI Emokaro, Rev. PO Okunromade, Brig. 
Gen. W Oki, Brig Gen. Y Bomoi, Brig. Gen. MI Tsiga, Brig. Gen. 
NT Okore-Affia, Brig. Gen. JB Olawumi, Maj. Gen. SZ Kazaure 
and the incumbent, Brig. Gen. S. Ibrahim. Each of these chief 
executives introduced a number of innovations- both in scope 
and mode of service of the Scheme- aimed at expanding, 
repositioning and reinvigorating the scheme for more effective 
service delivery in order to make the scheme as responsive to the 
7 
dynamics of the society as possible. While some of the changes 
were sweeping and radical, others have been moderate and 
gradual. This chapter seeks to identify the changes that have 
occurred in the NYSC since 1973, with emphasis on the 
implication of the changes for the Scheme and the nation. We 
begin with eligibility criteria and deployment/posting policies.
Eligibility Criteria
Participation in the service corps scheme was originally 
designed for a select group of qualified Nigerian youths who 
had successfully completed the prescribed course of academic 
7 
Mr. Mustapha Abdulsalam, Assistant Director of Research, NYSC National 
Headquarters, Abuja, 11/08/2020
TRANSFORMATIONS IN NYSC 273
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

and/or professional training in any of the six universities and 
their respective campuses (as the case may be) that were in 
8 
existence at the time the decree was promulgated in 1973. The 
six universities were: University of Ibadan, Ibadan; the 
University of Nigeria, Nsukka; Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria; 
University of Ife, Ile-Ife; University of Lagos; and the then 
fledgling University of Benin. Graduates of equivalent 
institutions overseas and those of other tertiary institutions in 
9
Nigeria were excluded from the programme.
The first adjustment to the eligibility criteria was made in the 
1975/76 service year. This followed the promulgation of the 
National Youth Service Corps (Extension of Application) Decree 
No. 24 of 1973 which extended the eligibility criteria to include 
every Nigerian who:
i. Successfully completed his first degree at the end of the 
1973/74 academic year at a university or degree-awarding 
institution of higher learning outside Nigeria;
ii. Successfully completed his first degree at a university or 
degree-awarding institution of higher learning, outside 
Nigeria before the 1973/74 academic year but had since been 
engaged in post-graduate studies.
To encourage their enlistment into the Scheme, the Federal 
Military Government offered to pay the passage of all the 
volunteers. Where a male volunteer was married and had 
children, the government also paid the passage of his wife and 
10 
children up to a maximum of three. With the inclusion of 
foreign-trained graduates, the number of participants passed 
the 3,000 mark for the first time during the 1975/76 service 
11 
year.
8
Asein, Call to Service, p.499 
Interview with Pastor Emmanuel Ojie, 58 years, 2 Pastor Avenue, Calabar, 24 July, 2020.10 
General Yakubu Gowon (1974), “An Address to the Graduating National Youth Service 
Corps Members on Sunday, June 30, 1974, p.2.11
Enegwea and Umoden, NYSC: Twenty Years of National Service, p.26.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020274
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

A more dramatic increase was to follow during the 1976/77 
and 1977/78 service years. Another amendment to the NYSC 
establishment decree of 1973 now stipulated that:
i. Every Nigerian shall be under obligation to make himself 
available for service for continuous period of one year, if at 
the end of the 1975/76 academic year or any subsequent 
academic year, such a Nigeria obtained the Higher National 
Diploma (HND) or the National Certificate of Education 
(NCE) or similar professional qualifications.
ii. Age shall cease to be a ground for exemption for those 
graduating as from January, 1977.
The inclusion of graduates from polytechnics and colleges of 
education (HND and NCE holders respectively) raised the 
number of participants from the 3,513 in 1975/76 to 6,107 in 
1976/77. This amounted to an increase of 2,594 corps members 12
or 73.84 percent between 1975/76 and 1976/77.
The removal of the 30-year age limit in January 1977 further 
increased the number of participants in the 1977/78 service year. 
This time, the number of corps members grew to 10,814 from 
6,107 during the previous service year. This increase amounted 
to a further 77.08 percent leap in the number of participants. 
Thenceforth, the number of corps members increased steadily 
and by the end of the first decade in 1982/83, a total of 146,294 
youths had served under the scheme. For the 1984/85 service 
year, the number of participants in the scheme reached a 
13 
staggering 46,685. The upsurge in the number of participants 
was a reflection of the increase in the number of institutions of 
higher learning in the country between the late 1970s and the 
early 1980s whose graduates participated in the NYSC. By the 
1984/85 academic session, the number of universities in the 
country had risen to 24. In addition, there were now 27 
polytechnics and 47 colleges of education. Apart from this, there 
12
Ibid, p.2713
Ibid
TRANSFORMATIONS IN NYSC 275
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

was great increase in the number of foreign-trained Nigerians, 
who having obtained requisite academic qualifications for 
participation in the NYSC, returned home to serve their 
14 
fatherland. The rapid transition of the Scheme from a position 
of limited acceptance to that of overwhelming patronage put 
tremendous strain on both the NYSC's material resources and its 
15 
management capabilities. All this was happening at a time 
when the nation was experiencing serious economic challenges 
which compelled the Federal Government to adopt national 
belt- tightening measures. Thus, in 1985, the Government issued 
another decree amending the former eligibility criteria. At the 
inception of the scheme, all graduates above the age of 30 years 
at the time of the call-up were exempted. The factor of age as a 
ground for exemption from corps service was withdrawn on 
January 1, 1977; it was reintroduced in August 1985 and has 
remained in force ever since. The new rule on statutory 
exemption was amended to read as follows:
st 
With effect from 1 August, 1985, a person shall not be called 
upon to serve in the service corps if, at the date of his graduation 
or obtaining his diploma or other professional qualification:
a. He is over the age of thirty; or
b. He has served in the armed forces of the Federation or the 
Nigerian Police Force for a period of more than nine months; 
or 
c. He has been conferred with any National Honours.
It also excluded from service, with effect from the end of the 
1984/85 academic year, holders of the National Certificate of 
Education. When this decree came into effect, commencing from 
the 1985/86 service year, the number of participants dropped 
14    
G. EjelaEmenako (1986), 12 Years of National Youth Service Corps in Nigeria: 1973-1985
(Lagos: Gabumo Press), p. 32.15 
Interview with Mr. Mustapha Abdulsalam
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020276
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

16 
sharply to 24,804. But soon after then, the number of corps 
members started rising again and today, it is growing in leaps 
and bounds. In an attempt to manage the huge number of 
participants, the programme is now conducted in batches and 
streams. Because this strategy has not been able to address the 
issue of corps members' explosion, some people have called for a 
17
downward review of the age limit to 25 years. Such people 
believe that reducing the age limit will help to reduce the 
number called up annually. Some other people are opposed to a 
reduction in the age limit, insisting that people who want to 
serve voluntarily should be allowed to enlist, even if they are 
above 30 years of age. The numerous contributions of corps 
members, past and present, to the development of the country 
calls for great caution on this matter.
Deployment/Posting of Corps Members
Since the cardinal objective of the NYSC scheme is to achieve 
national unity and integration, corps members were posted to 
states other than their states of origin, or of cultural affinity so 
that they could learn about the variety of Nigeria's peoples, 
cultures, and resources. No corps member had choice of state of 
deployment, just as he/she did not have a choice of place of 
18
primary assignment. The distribution of corps members to 
states was essentially based on the guideline provided in some 
paragraphs of the objectives of the Scheme, viz:
To develop common ties among (service corps members) 
and promote national unity by ensuring that:
i. As far as possible youths are assigned to jobs in states other 
than their states of origin;
ii. Each group assigned to work together is as representative of 
the country as possible;
iii. The youths are exposed (through their postings) to the 
16
Enegwea and Umoden, NYSC:Twenty Years of National Service,p.28.17 
Ibid, p.152.18
Interview with Professor Joseph Ushie.
TRANSFORMATIONS IN NYSC 277
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

modes of living of the people in different parts of the country 
with a view to removing prejudices, eliminating ignorance, 
and confirming at first hand the many similarities among 
Nigerians of all ethnic groups.
The traveling outside their home-base and cultural area was 
to open their horizon to see Nigeria beyond the narrow confines 
of their villages, towns, states, regions and ethnic groups. The 
primary aim of this policy was to curb extreme ethnocentrism, 
sectionalism, tribalism and stereotype views held about other 
groups' identity. Inter-ethnic and religious marriages were also 
encouraged; along with corps members taking up jobs in their 
states of service at the end of the service year as a way of 
redistributing manpower in the country. Since the relatives of 
the corps members would visit them at their places of service, it 
was also hoped that the Scheme will pull more Nigerians other 
than the corps members out of their ethnic and religious cocoons 
to travel around the country, and interact with fellow 
19 
Nigerians. H.B. Momoh had observed that:
[…] our experience is that the posting of the youths 
outside their cultural zone, bringing them into 
firsthand contact with the local culture in their places of 
service, helps to foster assimilation and acceptance. It 
places them in a position to appreciate the peculiarities 
of others, and how to cope and adapt to other's 
20
circumstances.
Experience gave impetus to the policy that corps members 
should not have a choice as to where they serve. Exemptions to 
this posting policy was only granted on health, marital or other 
extremely compassionate grounds. To qualify for concessional 
19 
O.B.C. Nwolise (2004), “The NYSC Scheme: An Appraisal of the First Decade of Hope,” in 
Danfulani S.A. and Aja Akpuru-Aja (eds), NYSC in its Fourth Decade: A Strategic Policy Outfit for 
National Development (Ibadan: Spectrum Books), p.59.20 
Hafiz B. Momoh (1991), “The Journey So Far: An Overview of the NYSC Scheme: An Address 
Presented at the Opening of the Workshop on NYSC in the '90s”. Abuja, p.5
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020278
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

deployment to states of request, unhealthy prospective corps 
members were mandated to procure medical reports from the 
University Teaching Hospitals, Medical Centres of relevant 
tertiary institutions, General Hospitals, Military or Mission 
Hospitals, duly signed by the Chief Medical Health Officer or 
Consultant. The privilege of preferential posting was rarely 
abused as there existed tight procedures for screening those 21 
entitled. As part of the scrutiny process, medical reports from 
private hospitals and clinics were not honoured. 
Over the years, the criteria for the deployment of corps 
members have been abused by unwarranted favouritism or 22
what Samuel Asein describes as the “Nigerian Factor.” Asein 
asserts that “many corps members have been known to mount 
all forms of pressure on Directorate officials (in spite of repeated 
warnings against such practices) to induce favourable 
consideration and posting.” Such demands have taken several 
forms, including:
i. Pressures for initial favourable deployment to states of first 
preference;
ii. Pressure for change of initial deployment from one state to 
another;
iii. Pressures for preferential postings to urban and suburban 
centres as against postings to rural areas;
iv. Pressures for favourable postings to particular undertakings 23
and projects.
The scheming to abuse due process and laid down rules 
often follow well-orchestrated patterns: dubious medical 
reports indicating the need for their holders to be close to their 
doctors in the urban centres and sometimes within their original 
home states; extensive lobbies by corps members and their 
'sponsors' where specious arguments on medical grounds fail. 
The situation attracted comments from well-meaning Nigerians 
21
Interview with Mr. Godwin Ashiebi, 60 years, Secondary School Principal, interviewed 
at Bendi, Cross River State, 15/08/202022
Asein, Call to Service, p.67.23 
Ibid, p.68.
TRANSFORMATIONS IN NYSC 279
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

who argued that deployment should be guided by the interest of 
the service and national interest. Displeased that people now 
“serve in their own backyards,” Gabriel Umoden advised that:
We must introduce a fool-proof computerization 
programme designed to ensure that no participant is 
ever allowed to serve in his or her own part of the 
country. For every service year, at least 75 percent of 
all participants from the former north should be sent 24
to the south and vice versa.
The corps Mobilization Department decried recently that her 
major challenge “is in dealing with external and internal 
influences on the mobilization process, especially with regard to 
deployment of prospective corps members and relocation of 
25
corps members.” Despite the measures taken by the managers 
of the scheme, including the fact that corps members posted on 
concessional grounds are automatically disqualified from being 
selected for honours award, the practice is still common place. In 
an attempt to address the pressures mounted on the managers of 
the scheme for preferential deployment, especially with the 
dreaded Boko Haram insurgency, the scheme had to modify its 
deployment policy by giving the prospective corps members the 
privilege of participating in the deployment process. To this end, 
prospective corps members are given the option of choosing 
four states they want to be deployed to, excluding their states of 
26 
origin and study. There is no doubt that even the caveat here is 
27 
consistently ignored. This development is antithetical to the 
24
Enegwea and Umoden, NYSC:Twenty Years of National Service,p.110.25 th 
Y.S. Ehoda-Adi et al (eds.) (2018), National Youth Service Corps Yearbook, 45 Anniversary, 
Abuja: National Directorate Headquarters, p.127.26
Interview with DrBenjamin Ubleble, 40+ years, Former NYSC Staff & currently 
Academic Staff, University of Calabar, interviewed at the University of Calabar, 
20/07/2020.27 
Interview with Professor Patience Erim 69 years,Federal Housing Estate, Calabar, 
AkwaIbom State, 25 July, 2020.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020280
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

provisions of the Act establishing the Scheme. Apart from 
promoting sectarian and ethnic differences, this has made many 
young Nigerians to be ignorant of their country. Since it is 
agreed that travelling is part of education, young graduates 
would know more of their fatherland and become more tolerant 
of other people if they serve in places distant from their cultural 
areas. The long- term negative impact of this development on the 
28
nation-building process is incalculable.
Orientation Course
The orientation course is designed to induct corps members into 
the one-year national service and equip them mentally and 
physically with the relevant skills and knowledge to enable 
them face the challenges of the service year. It is fundamentally 
designed to equip the corps members for the task of community 
service and nation building. At the inception of the Scheme in 
1973 and several years after, the orientation programme lasted 
29 
for one and half month. This period provided the opportunity 
for corps members to learn the languages and cultures of their 
hosts in terms of values, religion, customs, and traditions. The 
regimentation, drills and paramilitary parades and activities 
such as Man O'War helped inculcate self-control and discipline 
in the corps members. Lectures were organised and delivered by 
experts on different topics and themes. In the 1970s, orientation 
course included one whole week state tours, which enabled 
corps members to go round the state of deployment even before 
30
the posting to their primary assignment areas.
Though the orientation programme is still being carried out, 
so much has happened to its nature and essence. To start with, 
31 
orientation now lasts between two and three weeks. This has 
posed serious threat to the proper training of corps members for 
28
Interview with Chief Gregory Anyia.29
Ibid30
Nwolise, The NYSC Scheme, p.70.31
Interview with Mr. Patrick Odey, 40 years, Lecturer, University of Calabar, interviewed 
in Calabar, 21/07/2020.
TRANSFORMATIONS IN NYSC 281
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

national service and community development. The reduction in 
the orientation period has been attributed to the remarkable 
increase in the number of participants which posed some very 
serious problems for the organizers of the NYSC, the most 
debilitating of which has been that its limited facilities, skills and 
other resources have been stretched to the breaking point. 
Again, the state tours that were organised for all corps members 
to acquaint themselves with the nooks and crannies of their host 
states are now missing from the orientation course despite the 
fact that the states have become smaller than they were in the 
1970s. In her insightful reminiscences, Iyabo Omokri, who rose 
to the enviable position of State Director of the NYSC, said the 
following about state tour:
It was a very nice experience. We were taken to all parts 
of the state and arrangements were made for us to be 
accommodated in some secondary schools along the 
way. It also afforded us the opportunity to see all other 
parts of the state, apart from the Orientation Camp and 
our places of primary assignment. If not for the tour, 
many of our colleagues would not have known many 
areas of the then North Western State… The tour is 
something I cherish a lot and I really have no regrets 
32
over my service year.
The cancellation of state tours has been attributed to the vast 
economic difficulties associated with transportation, 
accommodation and other logistics. The herculean problem of 
organizing tours has been severally compounded by the now 
grievous underfunding of the scheme to the extent that many 
states cannot even provide the essential things needed in 
orientation camps. It is of great concern that while the number of 
corps participants has been on the upswing, in the last few years, 
there have not been conscious efforts by the state governments 
to expand the various orientation camps to at least the 5000-
32 
Interview with Enegwea and Umoden, NYSC:Twenty Years of National Service,p.98.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020282
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

capacity types. This gap in facilities has resulted in the 
segmentation of batches of corps members into streams, with the 
attendant negative health implications for the managers of the 
scheme, who, literally, spend great part of the year in 33
Orientation Camps. Now, many corps members rarely know 
anywhere else beyond their places of primary assignments and 
the state capitals.
Community Development Service (CDS)
Alternatively called Secondary Assignment, Community 
Development Service (CDS) is a cardinal programme of the 
NYSC aimed at deploying the innovativeness and creativity of 
corps members for the execution of development projects in 34 
conjunction with members of the host communities. The theory 
and practice of CDS is based on the ideology of self-reliance 
through effective coordination, exploration and adoptive 
exploitation of all human and material resources, aimed at 
destroying the dependence syndrome on government by 35 
communities for their development aspirations. Among the 
major achievements of the NYSC scheme since inception is the 
array of corps members' projects that have dotted various 
villages, towns and cities of Nigeria.
Since the NYSC was inaugurated in 1973, it has been 
obligatory for all corps members to participate in community 
development through the execution of CDS projects. From 1973 
to about 1984, the CDS programme of the NYSC scheme was 
virtually synonymous with rural development and the 36 
provision of basic infrastructures. At its inception, the NYSC 
Community Development Service programme was designed as 
a vacation assignment and carried out during the short Easter 
schools’ vacation, lasting about two to three weeks. The Easter 
33
Interview with Benjamin Ubleble.34
Brig. Gen. S. Ibrahim (2019), Keynote Address presented at the meeting of the NYSC th 
Management with Representatives of State Governments, Tuesday, 29 October, 2019, Abuja: 
Sandralia Hotel, p.6.35 
Ann Davis (1984), “Preface to Service of CDS: Theory and Practice of CDS”, NYSC DHQ, 
Lagos.36
Asein, Call to Service, p.103
TRANSFORMATIONS IN NYSC 283
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

project, as it became generally known, brought together corps 
members from their respective places of primary assignments to 
a pre-determined location within a local government area to 
execute development project(s) in areas of communities' 
greatest communal need. Some of the familiar projects executed 
at this early period include: building of bridges, construction of 
town halls, construction or renovation of classroom blocks, 
erection of health centres, erection of market stalls, erection of 37 
street sign posts and the numbering of houses in the rural areas.
In the light of changing circumstances, the community 
development aspect of the service was broadened and expanded 
to make it an all-year-round project. This trend became more th 
visible from about 1984, after the scheme's 10 anniversary. This 
was the time when the Easter-time development service 
programme metamorphosed into the now familiar year-round 
community development service programme. The scope of the 
CDS projects was expanded to include farming and the scheme 
embarked on massive food production as a priority area. This 
development led to the establishment of NYSC Farm 
Settlements and Ventures, including: Garment Factories, Rice 
Mills, Feed Mills, Garri Processing Factories, Water Bottling 
Plant etc. A contemporaneous report on the transformation of 
the CDS programme in the mid- 1980s indicates that:
Under the [new] CDS, a good number of corps 
members are deployed to work directly on farmland 
acquired by the NYSC State Secretariat in each of the 
nineteenth states of the Federation and Abuja. Each 
NYSC State Secretariat has acquired a minimum of one 
hundred hectares of farmland. Some states have 
acquired up to 3,000 hectares of farmland for 
cultivation. By July, 1985, a total of 10,000 hectares of 38 
land had been acquired for immediate cultivation.
37
Ibid.38
Emenako, 12 Years of National Youth Service Corps, p.19.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020284
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Over the years, CDS has been classified into two broad 
categories, namely: group and personal (individual) CDS. In the 
former category, corps members are expected to use one day in a 
week for group CDS activities. They are not expected to attend 
duties in their places of primary assignment on Group CDS 
days, which are completely dedicated to the execution of 
programmes that will improve the living conditions of their host 
39 
communities. Personal/individual CDS projects are executed 
by individual corps members in their host communities based 
on community felt- needs. Corps members are always 
encouraged to identify areas where they could make individual 
impact in their host communities. It could be construction 
projects like building of toilets, incinerators, bridges, 
classrooms, game facilities for schools etc. or social/educational 
projects such as establishment of ICT libraries, extra-mural 
classes, enlightenment campaigns, charity work, vocational 
40
training for the empowerment of unemployed youths etc.
In time past, the funding of Group CDS projects and 
activities of corps members was a shared responsibility among 
the three tiers of government, particularly the states and the local 41 
governments. In recent times, these funders have either become 
highly disinterested or completely withdrawn. This has taken a 
serious toll on the fortunes of the CDS programme and as 
observed by a former Director General of the scheme, Brig. Gen. 
MI Tsiga, “a common phenomenon these days is the weekly 
gathering of corps members at designated CDS sites to socialize, 42 
pick papers, hold group meetings, mark register and disperse.”
This is a sad development that needs to be urgently addressed so 
that Group CDS can be repositioned and reinvigorated to play 
39
Aigbokhai Solomon Arumemi (2018), “The National Youth Service Corps Community 
Development and Growth of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, 1982-2008.” M.A. 
Thesis, Federal University Lafia, p.109. The author has provided a comprehensive list of 
activities undertaken by the various Group CDS.40    
Ibid, pp.112-113.41 
Interview with Chief Gregory Anyia.42 
MI Tsiga (2010), Working the Talk: A Selection of Speeches by Brigadier General M.I. Tsiga, 
DG NYSC, Abuja: Rollamak Resources, p.217.
TRANSFORMATIONS IN NYSC 285
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

its important role of harnessing the skills, creativity and 
innovations of youths into an effective machinery for national 
development and progress of both the urban and most 
especially the rural communities. There are myriad reasons why 
the Group CDS, which instill the traditions of dignity of labour 
in corps members should be given adequate attention and 
encouragement. As the entire NYSC Scheme instills in the 
youths the spirit of selfless service to the fatherland, the 
community development programme imbues them with a sense 
of pride at having contributed, in a practical, visible manner, 
towards the completion of a development project. As has been 
established by stakeholders in the NYSC Scheme, CDS serves to 
bring out the best from corps members who show initiative, 
talent and promise for success. Convinced that the innovations, 
transformations and the spirit of entrepreneurship that were 
injected into the CDS programme in 1984 would revolutionise 
the Scheme, the then Director, Col. EdetAkpan, stressed that:
I am envisaging an NYSC scheme that is not content 
with things as they are… that seeks to render them 
better, or better understood; one that accepts hard 
work, dignity in labour and sacrifice; one that is ready 
to question, to inquire, to explore, to change, to seek 
and obtain better options, such that will ensure the 
survival of the scheme, now and for our coming 43
generations.
The Community Development Service of the Scheme further 
witnessed increased activities with the implementation of the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), now re-christened 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The Special Assistant to 
the current Director General of the NYSC, Yunusa Tanimu, 
stated recently that under the partnership with the Sustainable 
Development Goals, “corps members are trained to participate 
43
Qtd in Asein, Call to Service, p.105. See also Emenako, 12 Years of National Youth Service 
Corps in Nigeria, p.iii.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020286
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

actively in the SDGs awareness creation nationwide.” He states 
further that “since the beginning of the programme, 1,176,957 
Corps members have been sensitized on the SDGs at the NYSC 
Orientation Camps while 197,535 of them have so far been 44 
trained as Corps Advocates.” NYSC active participation in the 
SDGs programmes attracted an award from the United Nations 45 
and accolades from other several agencies. There are several 
other national and international organizations and 
establishments with which the NYSC collaborates with in its 
aspiration to impact on the development and progress of both 
urban and rural communities in Nigeria. To this, we turn brief 
attention.
NYSC and Collaborations
Though the NYSC scheme was established by government in 
1973 as a deliberate policy for social reconstruction after the civil 
war, it has undergone a lot of role transformation over the years. th 
It was clear by the beginning of the 4 decade of NYSC's 
existence that it has to be repositioned for more enduring results. 
The late Brig- General Yusuf Bomoi who was the NYSC Director 
General from 2004 to 2009 indicated that his administration was 
not only determined to consolidate the gains recorded, but also 
to maximize the potentials of the Scheme including the 
mobilization of its enterprising, energetic, skillful and resilient 
youths, for effective service delivery in order to meet the high 
expectations of Government and Nigerians. A major thrust in 
this regard was the establishment and expansion of the frontiers 46 
of collaboration with national and international agencies.
Currently, the NYSC is in effective partnership with such 
44 th 
YunusaTanimu (2010), “Preface” to Selected Speeches and Strides of the 18 NYSC Director- 
General Brig. Gen. S. Ibrahim (Abuja: DrPrint Limited, 2020), p.vii.45 
Brig Gen S Ibrahim (2019), Address Presented at the Media Parley with Editors, Bureau th 
Chiefs and Youth Correspondents held on Thursday, 15 August, 2019 at Barcelona Hotel, 
Abuja, p.5.46 
Yusuf Bomoi (2008), “Postscript,” in Danfulani S.A. and Aja Akpuru-Aja (eds), NYSC in 
Its Fourth Decade: A Strategic Policy Outfit for National Development (Ibadan: Spectrum Books 
Limited, 2008), p.273.
TRANSFORMATIONS IN NYSC 287
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

agencies as United Nations Children Education Fund 
(UNICEF), United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), 
Energy Commission of Nigeria (ECN), British Council/World 
Bank Institute, Nigeria Institute of Management (NIM), The 
National Directorate of Employment (NDE), Independent 
Electoral Commission (INEC), Federal Road Safety Commission 
(FRSC), Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), 
Legal Aid Council, Pan African Institute for Global Affairs and 
Strategy (PAIGAS), Independent Corrupt Practices and other 
Related Offences Commission (ICPC), Society for Family Health 
(SFH), Global Fund, National Population Commission (NPC), 
National Programme on Immunisation (NPI), Federal Ministry 
of Health, National Action Committee on Aids (NACA), Small 
and Medium Enterprise Development Agency of Nigeria 47
(SMEDAN), Federal Ministry of Agriculture, amongst others. A 
former Director General of the Scheme, Brig. Gen. MI Tsigahad 
stated that:
The NYSC is being sought after for collaboration by 
many national and international agencies who have 
realized the abundant potentials in the scheme. My 
office has always been inundated with requests for 
collaboration by unaccountable number of 48
governmental and non- governmental organizations.
The various collaborations enhance the development and 
empowerment of the youth, enable resources to be pooled to 
execute commonly defined projects, thereby allowing useful 
experiences to be gained. Major stakeholders in the Scheme 
testified that the gains of collaborations have been immense, 
adding value to service, especially through skill acquisition and 
quality service delivery. Perhaps, of special relevance is the 
INEC/ NYSC collaboration on free, fair and credible elections. 
NYSC's collaboration with the Independent National Electoral 
Commission (INEC) began in 2008 with the engagement of corps 
47
Ahoda-Adiet al., National Youth Service Corps, p.47. See also Bomoi, “Postscript,” p.274.48
Tsiga, Working the Talk, p.219
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020288
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

members in the conduct of re-run elections in several states 49 
across the country. The commitment, professional conduct and 
patriotism exhibited by corps members in that experiment led to 
the permanent arrangement of assigning corps members to 
administer all INEC- organised elections.
The INEC/NYSC partnership transformed into a full-
fledged inter-agency collaboration leading to the signing of a 
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) by the two 
organizations in November, 2011. The MOU was reviewed in 50 
2013. The basic logic behind the deployment of corps members 
in elections is that since most of them are not members of the 
community where they serve, they are likely to be non-51 
partisan. Also, their education attainment confers on them the 
advantage of being easily trainable and teachable for the 
conduct of elections. There is an increasing body of opinion 
attesting to the fact that the participation of corps members in the 
electoral process has greatly enhanced the credibility of the 
elections. In a recent address, the Director General of the 
Scheme, Brig. Gen. S Ibrahim admitted that “the scheme takes 
great pride in the sense of patriotism, commitment and 
neutrality exhibited by the corps members in the course of 
discharging the election duties, especially during the 2011, 2015 
and 2019 general elections, as well as, the Anambra, Ekiti and 52 
Osun Governorship elections.” Only recently, the European 
Union (EU), through its Election Observation Mission, poured 
accolades on NYSC at a ceremony organised by the body to 
honour and distribute Information Technology equipment to 
seventy-five corps members selected across the country for their 
outstanding performance during the 2019 general 53
elections. Several other national and international bodies are 
appreciative of the enormous contributions of corps members to 
the electoral process in Nigeria. 
49 
Ibrahim, Address Presented at the Media Parley with Editors, p.12.50
Ahoda-Adiet al, NYSC, p.48.51
Interview with Professor Patience Erim.52 
Ibrahim, Address Presented at the Media Parley with editors, p.12.53
Ibid.
TRANSFORMATIONS IN NYSC 289
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Energy Commission of Nigeria (ECN) officially joined 
the league of NYSC collaborators when it signed an MOU with it 
in 2010. This collaboration was designed to engage the corps 
members in the creation of awareness in the development of 
alternative source of energy and energy devices, especially in the 
rural areas. Brig. Gen. MI Tsiga who signed the MOU on behalf 
of NYSC was optimistic that the collaboration will achieve the 
aim of equipping corps members with skills for fabrication of 
small tools for renewable energy devices and will build a core 
advocacy group to reach the rural area for dissemination of 54 
lowest information on rural renewal energy. As expected, corps 
members trained by the ECN now undertake enlightenment 55 
campaigns as part of their community development activities.
Apart from the training that was done in Sokoto, Enugu, Kaduna 
and Niger States, the ECN also sponsored the training of twelve 
corps members on Renewable Energy in Berlin Germany in 56
2009.
NYSC's partnership with the British Council/World Bank 
Institute is geared towards raising the awareness of the corps 
members and preparing them as agents of change towards 
attaining the noble objectives of the Sustainable Development 
Goals. The NYSC/SDGs Advocacy Project which was 
established in September 2006 has become one of the most 
acknowledged contributions towards the attainment of the 57 
MDGs in Nigeria. The attainment of the seventeen-point SDGs 
which represent the United Nations' global agenda for 
development requires the support of all and sundry. Of its 
various key players and stakeholders, NYSC has distinguished 
itself through its impactful contribution to the health, water and 
sanitation, education and poverty eradication programmes. 
NYSC's projects like Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers and 
Corps members' projects like construction and reactivation of 
hand pumps and motorized boreholes for communities, 
54
Tsiga, Working the Talk, p.17655
Ahoda-Adi, et al, National Youth Service Corps, p.4756
Tsiga, Working the Talk, p.17757
Interview with BusariDaudau.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020290
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

construction of public toilets to reverse the trend of open 
defecation, teaching as Primary Assignment, Mass Literacy 
Campaign, and vocational training for members of host 
communities amongst other programmes of the scheme have 58
been highly commended. The NYSC is today held in “very high 
esteem in government circles and among the host communities 
as a result of its many achievements under the MDGs (SDGs) 
advocacy project”. The impressive performance of the NYSC in 
the SDGs project led to Government's approval of the War 
Against Poverty (WAP) programme for implementation by the 
Scheme. The ability of the NYSC/WAP initiative to address the 
problem of post-service unemployment among corps members 
and the level of financial commitment by government have 59 
given many people cause for joy and interest. It is gratifying to 
note that many WAP beneficiaries are doing well and 
contributing their quota in the various communities, where they 
have established their agro- enterprises. As part of their training 
and mentoring mandate, they train and mentor at least five (5) 60 
youths in the host community. Meanwhile, between its 
inception and 2018, no fewer than 3,266 corps members were 
trained and 2,543 empowered with the sum of Six Hundred and 
Twenty-Nine Million Seven Hundred Thousand Naira 61
(N629,700,000.00) as revolving loans. Also, the Scheme was able 
to exploit the opportunities of the WAP programme to facilitate 
the attendance of Advanced Entrepreneurial Training at Barry 
University, Miami, Florida, USA, by seven (7) corps 
entrepreneurs. The corps entrepreneurs were given loans of 
between N 1.8 Million and N 3.0 Million by the National 
Economic Reconstruction Funds to expand their enterprises in 62 
order to employ more community members.
58 th 
S Ibrahim (2020),Selected Speeches and Strides of the 18 NYSC Director General (Abuja: 
Drprint Limited), p.161.59
Interview with Barbara N. Ibiam, Serving Corps Member, Newspaper Corporation, 
Calabar, Cross River State, 24/07/202060
Tsiga, Working the Talk, p.23161
National Youth Service Corps Yearbook, p.3962
Ibid, p.38
TRANSFORMATIONS IN NYSC 291
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC/Cognity Advisory partnership has also been lauded 
as initiative geared towards the empowerment of youths and the 
development of the country. It was in furtherance of its 
commitment to the effective implementation of the Skill 
Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development that the NYSC 
established the Partnership with Cognity Advisory, which is 
coordinating a group of telecom, banking and other 
multinational giants to enhance entrepreneurship training, 
mentorship and funding options for aspiring corps 63 
entrepreneurs. They include Sterling Bank, Fidelity Bank, First 64 
Bank, Samsung, Globacom, Airtel, Kwese/LflixNigeria. As the 
next section indicates, they also undertake capacity building, 
career guidance, job search, basic entrepreneurship and 
employability training, geared towards reducing youth 
unemployment.
Entrepreneurship Development Programmes
The hope that the NYSC programme will enable the corps 
members develop the spirit of self-reliance and capacity for self-
employment after the service year suffered great 65 
disappointment. This arises from the fact that Nigeria's 
educational system lacks any meaningful programmes and 
infrastructure for practical teaching and learning, which can 
inculcate skills required for self-reliance and self- employment. 
There are hardly any functional laboratories, workshops, or 
libraries for the impartation of practical knowledge. The most 
objective assessment of the Nigerian educational system would 
have to concede that the country has not positioned its education 
where it could equip citizens with the necessary knowledge and 
skills to function in a modern society. Worried by this 
conundrum, the NYSC has over the years made various 
attempts to facilitate the process of skill acquisition and 
entrepreneurship development among corps members. Though 
63
Ibid64 
Ibrahim, Address Presented at the Media Parley with Editors, p.13.65
Interview with Oscar Gukas, 58 years, Assistant Director, Corps Certification, NYSC 
Directorate Headquarters, Abuja, 12/08/2020
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020292
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

the concept of entrepreneurship development has always been a 
part of the NYSC programme, the pioneer corps members had 
little or no need to take it seriously. Several options were 66 
available to young graduates in the early years of the scheme.
With the downturn in the economic fortunes of the country 
starting from the 1980s when job opportunities for graduates 
became dimmer, it became necessary for corps members upon 
their discharge to search for alternative means of sustaining a 
living and to pursue employment generation options within the 
labour market/ economy. This necessity, naturally brought 
about the increased interest in and awareness of the value of 67 
Entrepreneurship Development Programme (EDP).
The NYSC was thus compelled by unfavourable 
circumstances in the labour market which made it difficult for 
the Scheme to serve as an employment, or unemployment buffer 
to promote innovative and revolutionary steps in tackling the 
menace of incipient disaffection among Nigerian youths who 
have to contend with the socio-economic reality of increased 68 
unemployment and possible social maladjustment. The first 
major step was taken in October 1987 with the introduction of 
the NYSC Entrepreneurship Development Programme (EDP). 
As its name suggests, EDP was aimed at instilling the spirit of 
enterprise in corps members. Administered during orientation 
course, the EDP was expected to help corps members develop 
their mercantilist instincts and the requisite abilities for the 
establishment and management of their individual or collective 
business ventures after an initial period of training provided by 
professional resource persons drawn from the private and 69
public sectors.
With the establishment of the National Directorate of 
Employment (NDE), the EDP was reinvigorated. The 
66
Interview with Professor Joseph Ushie.67
AseinCall to Service, p.10868
AdieleAfigbo(2005), “The National Youth Service and the Challenge of the Fourth 
Republic,” in ToyinFalola (ed) Nigerian History, Politics and Affairs: The Collected Essays of 
AdieleAfigbo, Trenton: Africa World Press, p.551.69
Interview with Chief Gregory Anyia.
TRANSFORMATIONS IN NYSC 293
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NDE/NYSC collaboration widened the scope of 
entrepreneurship engagement and development as some areas 
which were hitherto considered demeaning for graduates were 
patronized with tremendous and rewarding revolutionary 70 
results. Though it opened up new opportunities for gainful 
employment for youths who would otherwise have remained 
unemployed, the fortunes of NDE nosedived and it became 
grossly inadequate in building youths for self-reliance. The 
uncertainties and frustrations of endless job hunt continued to 
give the administrators of the NYSC sleepless nights. The 
continuous search for alternative means of sustaining a living 
and to pursue employment generation options within the labour 
market/economy culminated in the establishment of the Skills 
Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development Department 71 
(SAED) in March, 2012. It aimed at “building the capacity of 
young graduates as well as provide the enabling conditions for 
them to cope with the challenges of unemployment and wealth 72 
creation.” The SAED project is implemented through In-camp 
and Post-camp training of corps members. The In-camp 
component focuses largely on creating the entrepreneurial and 
self-reliant spirit, helping corps members explore various 
income generation opportunities available with a view to 
i d e n t i f y i n g  t h e  o n e  t h a t  b e s t  s u i t s  t h e i r  
personality/circumstances and professional training. The Post- 
camp component provides the platform for a more rigorous 
training of interested corps members with a view to equipping 
them with the necessary technical/vocational skills as well as 73
business competence needed to startup businesses.
SAED programmes are financed and executed in 
collaboration with various organizations and enterprises, 
including the Bank of Industry (BOI), the Central Bank of 
Nigeria (CBN), Access Bank, Direct Credit Limited, National 
Directorate of Employment (NDE), International Labour 
70
Ibid., p.10971
Interview with Mustapha Abdulsalam72
Ibrahim, Address Presented at the Media Parley with Editors, p.1373 
Nuhu S. Kwaghe (2018), “Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development th 
Department”, in Y.S. Ehoda-Adi et al., (eds), National Youth Service Corps Yearbook, 45
Anniversary (Abuja: Drprint Limited), p.171
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020294
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Organisation (ILO), Small and Medium Enterprises 
Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN), Bank of 
Agriculture (BOA), and the United Nations Institute for 74
Training and Research (UNITAR), etc. Through its public-
private partnership drive, the scheme has established Mega Skill 
Acquisition Centres in Ekiti and Gombe States for the South 
West and North East geo-political zones of the country 
respectively. The Scheme is committed to ensuring that similar 
facilities are established in the remaining zones in the first phase 75 
of the programme. From the inception of the programme to 
date, 1,132, 409 corps members have been sensitized and 
reached with SAED messages. Out of this number, 764,677 76 
successfully completed the post-camp training. Conscious of 
the fact that entrepreneurial training without capital to set up 
business is as good as not doing anything, several partners have 
trained and disbursed funds to corps members, and the 
beneficiaries have all established their own businesses in 
different parts of the country. The table below indicates what the 
major partners have disbursed to corps members:
Table 7: Showing Organisations and the Monetary Value of Support to 
Corpse Members Under SAED
SAED has tremendously transformed the entrepreneurial 
development aspirations and programmes of the NYSC, 
especially corps members and has left no one in doubt that it is a 
74
Ibid75
Ahoda-Adi, et  al., NYSC Yearbook, p.37.76
Brig. Gen. S. Ibrahim (2019), “Remarks at the Official Handover of Information Technology 
Equipment to Corps Members by the EU Election Observation Mission held at the NYSC th 
Permanent Orientation Camp, Kubwa, FCT on Monday, 17 June, 2019.77
S. Ibrahim (2019), “Life Without White Collar: Imperatives for Vocational and th 
Entrepreneurial Education: The NYSC Perspective”. Lecture at the 11 Convocation Ceremony th 
of Tai Solarin University of Education, Ijagun, Ogun State on Thursday, 28 November, 2019, 
p.18.
TRANSFORMATIONS IN NYSC 295
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

veritable antidote to the perennial unemployment problem in 
Nigeria. Little wonder the editors of the National Youth Service 
Corps Yearbook unanimously agreed that “SAED remains one of 
the most valuable initiatives of the 45 [now 47]- year old Scheme, 
empowering successive batches of Corps members with skills 
and instilling entrepreneurial mindset in them. It is an active 78
answer to the rhetorical question: after NYSC what next?”
National Honours Awards
The NYSC National Honours Award was instituted in 1974 
when the Scheme was a year old to promote dedication and 
excellence in service among corps members. When the 
ceremony was first held in July 1974 only ten corps members 
received the award. Two years later, State Honours Award was 
established in recognition of the meritorious service of many 
more corps members who cannot all be awarded National 
Honours Award. With this development, the award was 
categorized into two and rechristened “Chairman's National 
Honours Award” and Chairman's State Honours Award”. In 
1976, the number of states in Nigeria increased from 12 to 19. 
That year witnessed the decoration of 22 corps members by the 
Head of State. Out of this number, the best three were awarded 
the Head of State's National Honours Award, while the 
remaining ones got the Head of State's State Honours Award. 
Until 1982/83 service year, the titles of these awards were 
“Chairman's National Honours Award” and Chairman's State 
Honours Award. The 1984 change affected the 1983/84 award 79 
winners. In this same year, the award changed from plaque to 
medal presentation.
In 1988, General Ibrahim Babangida on the occasion of that 
year's Honours Award held at Abuja, called for the “extension of 
the annual award to the local government level.” This was the 
principal reason that the Scheme intensified its efforts to monitor 
corps members' achievements and contributions at the 
78
Ehoda-Adiet al., NYSC Yearbook, p.296.79
Emenako, 12 Years of National Youth Service Corps, p.25.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020296
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

80 
grassroots level. In 1989, the Scheme constituted a standing 
committee to inspect and monitor corps members' achievements 
and contributions in the rural areas. The committee was charged 
with the responsibility of visiting all local government areas in 
the Federation to ascertain and measure the achievements of 81 
corps members in their host communities. The impact of this 
innovation on the development of Nigerian rural communities 
was catalytic. It is important to state that the three categories of 
awards are still being given. They are Local Government 
Honours Award, State Honours Award, and President's 
Honours Award. There is yet another award sponsored 
externally by the National Council Women Societies (NCWS). It 
was instituted during the 1992/93 service year by the umbrella 
women body for the best female corps member. The winner is 
usually given a trophy and cash prize during the President's 82
NYSC Honours Award Ceremony. Also, the 1992service year 
witnessed the institutionalization of merit awards aimed at 
encouraging healthy competition among the NYSC staff and to 
enhance overall commitment: Staff Merit Award, Best 
Secretariat Award and Best Department Award.
Over the years, the constituency has continued to expand as 
the number of states rose from the initial twelve at the inception 
of the Scheme to nineteen, then twenty-one, later thirty and now 
thirty- six plus the Federal Capital Territory of Abuja. To further 
rekindle the competitiveness of the award and place proper 
emphasis on merit irrespective of the states of deployment of 
corps members, General Ibrahim Babangida, as Head of State, 
enjoined the operators of the NYSC to discard the 
representational Federal Character factor in the selection of 
award winners. In compliance with this directive, there were, at 
the December 1992 award ceremony 20 winners from only 15 
states, from a total of 93 nominees drawn from all over the 83 
country.
80
Enegwea and Umoden, NYSC, p.195.81
Ibid.82
Ahoda-Adiet al., (eds), NYSC Yearbook, p.41.83
Enegwea and Umoden, NYSC, p.194 – 195.
TRANSFORMATIONS IN NYSC 297
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Meanwhile, this tradition of promoting excellence among corps 
members was suspended in 1998 and was not revived until 2005, 
after nearly ten years in limbo. The resuscitation and restoration 
of the Honours Award was an indication that the management 
of the scheme is committed to repositioning and re-engineering 
it for excellence and to motivate Nigerian youths for national 
development. The NYSC Honours Award has greatly 
engendered love and commitment of the youths to their 84 
fatherland. Solomon Arumeri posits that “the policy of 
Honours Award introduced a fundamental change in the 
attitude of corps members towards their place of primary 
assignment. Having observed that most of the corps members 
who benefitted from the award served in the village/rural 
communities; the erstwhile desire to serve in the city or urban 
centres shifted to the village community, where it is easier to 85
make an impression.”
Information and Communication Technology/Digitization
The Information and Communication Technology (ICT) 
Department, which was established in 2012 has been anchoring 
the deployment of ICT solutions to drive the operations of the 
NYSC Scheme for greater efficiency. One of the best things that 
has happened to the Scheme is its migration from analogue to an 86 
online integrated system. A recent comment by the Director 
General of NYSC, Brig. Gen. S. Ibrahim is instructive:
It is gratifying to note that the innovative application of 
ICT solutions, which commenced over half a decade 
ago, has not only revolutionized NYSC operations, but 
also helped in entrenching transparency and 
accountability. While we relish the feats so far achieved, 
management desires to achieve further breakthrough 87
in the scheme through ICT deployment.
84
Interview with Benjamin Ubleble.85
Arumemi, “The National Youth Service Corps”, p.82.86
Interview with Oscar Gukas.87
S. Ibrahim (2020), Address Presented at a Training Workshop on NYSC Integrated 
System for NYSC State Coordinators, held at Top Rank Hotels Galaxy, Utako, Abuja on th 
Monday 10 February, 2020, p.1.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020298
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The full computerization of the mobilization process started 
with the 2014 Batch 'C' service year, bringing in its wake the 
following achievements:
i. Online upload of Senate/Academic Board Approved Lists 
by Corps Producing Institutions (CPIs);
ii. Online Registration by both Local and Foreign Trained 
Prospective Corps Members;
iii. Online Registration by Part-time Graduates;
iv. Online Printing of Call-up Letters;
v. Biometric Verification and Registration during 
Orientation Programmes;
vi. Online Processing of Relocation of Corps Members;
vii. Automated Printing of Certificates of National Service, 
Exemption Certificates and Exclusion Letters Embossed 
with Passport Photographs;
viii. Real-time Generation of Various Reports on Corps Data;
ix. Use of Biometrics for the Monthly Clearance of Crops 
Members in all the states of the federation and the FCT.
The above feats have enthroned a culture of integrity, 
enhanced efficiency and eased the process of doing business 88 
between the Scheme and its stakeholders. The new ICT-driven 
NYSC is gaining acceptance across the broad spectrum of its 
stakeholders. The transformations and innovations the scheme 
has achieved through the use of ICT has attracted the 
endorsement of relevant bodies as the Scheme was conferred 
with the Best MDA Award in the innovative application of ICT 
solutions at the 2016 e-Governance Award Ceremony organised 89 
by NITDA/Nihilent. Before the digitalization of the Scheme's 
processes, prospective corps members had to return to their 
institutions of graduation for collection of Call-up Letters. But 
with the computerization of the process through the NYSC 
online Integrated System, a graduate can register online for 
88
Interview with Oscar Gukas.89
Ibrahim, Address Presented at the Media Parley with Editors, p.11.
TRANSFORMATIONS IN NYSC 299
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

mobilization from any part of the world, and any graduate so 90 
mobilized can print the Call-up Letter online. This innovation 
has many benefits, including enhancement of the credibility of 
the mobilization process by eliminating chances of sharps 
practices, saving of travel cost and time that would have been 
spent if one had to collect Call-up Letter by hand and the 
attendant risks involved in travelling especially with the bad 91
state of Nigerian roads.
We round off this brief section by highlighting the 
innovation in certification. The inscription of date of birth on the 
certificate of national service has been widely applauded. This 
development which began with the 2019 Batch 'A' aims at 
forestalling the manipulation by over age persons seeking 92 
mobilization for service. In the same vein, arrangements have 
been concluded for the date of birth to be reflected on Exclusion 93 
Letters commencing from the 2019 Batch 'C' service year. The 
current management of the scheme is poised to maximize the 
use of ICT to achieve greater efficiency. The policy of the current 
Director General, which is to “pursue a technologically driven 
organization to deepen effective service delivery,” says much of 
this aspiration.
Changes in Organisational Structure
The Scheme has undergone several administrative re-
organisations in response to the dynamics of the society. Due to 
the constraint of space, we will only highlight the major changes 
here. Like the participants, the structure started with a humble 
beginning of a Director as Chief Executive at the apex assisted by 
a few pioneer staff at the Headquarters and Principal Inspectors 94 
as heads of State Secretariats. After a series of re-organisations, 
the NYSC has today grown into a complex organization - Grade 
A parastatal - with a Director-General and Departmental 
90
Interview with Barbara N. Ibiam.91 th 
S. Ibrahim, Selected Speeches and Strides of the 18 NYSC Director-General, p.159.92
Interview with Oscar Gukas. 93
Ibrahim, Selected Speeches, p.252 
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020300
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Directors at the National Directorate Headquarters and state 
coordinators in each of the 36 states of the Federation and the 
Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Abuja. At its inception, the 
heads of the State Secretariats were known as Principal 
Inspectors who were seconded to the Scheme by their respective 
State Governments. Things began to change at the state level 
from the second half of the 1970s, when the nomenclature of the 
heads of state secretariat was up-graded to Chief Inspector to 
cope with the expansion of the scheme and the subsequent 95 
increase in responsibilities. The nomenclature was later 
changed to State Director. It remained known by that title till 
1993 when a new approved structure changed the nomenclature 
to State Coordinators. Currently, the administrators of State 
Secretariats are called State Coordinators. The Scheme spread its 
tentacles to all local government areas in the late 1980s. The 
Scheme has also evolved a zonal system whereby local 
government areas in each state are grouped into zones to bring 
nearer home to the local communities the administration of the 
corps Scheme. The introduction of the zonal system for effective 
coordination of corps activities at the local government level and 
the specific roles assigned to corps liaison officers to facilitate 
effective communication and operational linkages between the 
state secretariats, appropriate local government authorities and 96
corps members were milestone developments.
The point should be made that the 1973 NYSC enabling 
Decree provided for only two governing bodies at the national 
and state levels. These were the Directorate and State 
Committees. This changed when the NYSC enabling Act made 
provision for a 3-tier structure, that is, Federal, State and Local 
Governments. At the Federal level, the Scheme now has the 
National Directorate comprising the Chairman, the Secretary 
(Director General), the representatives of the University Vice-
Chancellors, Polytechnic Rectors, the Police and the Armed 
95
Enegwea and Umoden, NYSC, p.37.96
Asein, Call to Service, p.48.
TRANSFORMATIONS IN NYSC 301
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Forces. At the state level, there is a Governing Board for each 
state of the Federation and the FCT. There is also a Local 
Government Committee at the local government level. It is to the 
credit of the Scheme that it has succeeded in a large measure in 
sustaining and reviewing in line with changing conditions for 
optimal performance organizational and operational 
apparatuses as a way of fostering its organizational 
cohesiveness and productivity. The NYSC recently secured 
approval of the Federal Government to establish an area office in 
each of the six geo-political zones. The offices, which have 
already taken off, are located in Asaba, Bauchi, Enugu, Kaduna, 
Minna and Osogbo. They are to coordinate NYSC activities in 
each of the zones and will be carrying out field monitoring and 
inspection as well as ensure effective liaison with relevant 97
stakeholders among other functions. nd 
It is pertinent to mention that the NYSC Decree No. 24 of 22
May, 1973 placed the Scheme under the Cabinet Office, now the 
Presidency. Owing to frequent changes in government, the 
supervision of the Scheme was later removed from the 
Presidency. Since then, the NYSC had been supervised by 
various Federal Ministries. At present, it is under the 
supervision of the Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports 
Development. This situation led to lack of continuity and 
uniformity in the administration of the Scheme since each new 
supervising ministry adopted a new approach. Consequently, 
the NYSC was subjected to the whims and caprices of successive 
governments and excessive bureaucratic red-tap, to the 
detriment of the Scheme. It is advisable that changes should only 
be made when they are considered imperative to make the 
Scheme more dynamic and relevant to the contemporary and 
future needs of the society. 
97
S Ibrahim (2019), Keynote Address Presented at the Meeting of the NYSC Management th 
with Representatives of State Governors held on Tuesday, 29 October, 2019 at Sandralia 
Hotel, Abuja, p.7.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020302
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Conclusion
In this historical journey, we have examined and analysed the 
transformations that have taken place in the NYSC from 1973 to 
the present, with focus on the implication of the changes and 
innovations for the scheme and the nation. From the foregoing, it 
is evident that the Scheme has undergone a lot of 
transformations in its organization, administrative, policies, role 
and activities. At its inception, the Scheme was limited to 
mobilization of corps members for orientation and primary 
assignment. Today, however, it performs a number of strategic 
roles particularly in implementing some of the cardinal 
programmes and policies of government and indeed non-
governmental programmes in supporting reform agenda. In this 
regard, the NYSC is in active collaboration with national and 
international organizations in response to the dynamics of the 
society.
There is no over-stating the fact that the changes brought 
about by successive governments and the management of the 
Scheme have made the Scheme more virile and responsive to the 
needs of the society and subsequently, enhance its status as a 
grade 'A' parastatal. Several innovations have greatly enhanced 
the effective performance of the Scheme at the grassroots as the 
State and Local Governments have been assigned greater roles 
in the administration of the Scheme at those levels. The various 
positive changes have boosted the morale of corps members and 
staff and have facilitated the achievement of the lofty objectives 
of the Scheme. It is to the credit of the various managers of the 
Scheme through time that the Scheme has recorded impressive 
record of sustained growth under changing conditions within its 
social and political environment. The very hostile reactions to 
government plan for the establishment of the Scheme and 
widespread demonstrations across campuses and in major cities 
by Nigerian undergraduates have given way to excitement and 
enthusiasm, bringing about a situation in which even ineligible 
persons seek mobilization for national service by hook or by 
crook.
TRANSFORMATIONS IN NYSC 303
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

REFERENCES
(A) Oral Interviews
The oral data used in this study were collected during fieldwork 
with stakeholders in the NYSC Scheme, including past and 
present staff, former and current corps members, employers of 
corps members, etc. The data have been found to be useful and 
reliable for the assessment of the major transformations that 
have occurred in the NYSC since 1973. The information was 
collected through personal interviews conducted between July 
20 and August 15, 2020. Some of the most engaging informants 
include the following:
(B) Secondary Literature
Afigbo, Adiele (2005), “The National Youth Service and the 
Challenge of the Fourth Republic,” in ToyinFalola (ed) 
Nigerian History, Politics and Affairs: The Collected Essays of 
AdieleAfigbo, Trenton: Africa World Press, pp. 549 - 557.
Arumemi, Solomon A. (2018), “The National Youth Service 
Corps Community Development and Growth of the 
Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, 1982-2008.” M.A. Thesis, 
FederalUniversity Lafia.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020304
Table 8: Oral Interviews
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Asein, Samuel O. (1993), Call to Service: Twenty Years of the 
National Youth Service Corps Scheme, 1973-1993 . Ibadan: 
Sam Bookman. Bomoi, Yusuf (2008), “Postscript,” in 
Danfulani S.A. and Aja Akpuru-Aja (eds), NYSC in Its 
Fourth Decade: A Strategic Policy
Outfit for National Development. Ibadan: Spectrum Books 
Limited.
Davis, Ann (1984), “Preface to Service of CDS: Theory and 
Practice of CDS,” NYSC DHQ, Lagos.
Ehoda-Adi, Y.S. et al (eds.) (2018), National Youth Service Corps th 
Yearbook, 45 Anniversary , Abuja: National Directorate 
Headquarters.
Emenako, Ejela (ed.)(1986), 12 Years of National Youth Service 
Corps in Nigeria: 1973-1985. Lagos: Gabumo Press.
Enegwea, Gregory and Umoden, Gabriel (1993), NYSC: Twenty 
Years of National Service. Lagos: Gabumo Press
Gowon, Yakubu (1974), “An Address to the Graduating 
National Youth Service Corps Members on Sunday, June 
30, 1974.
Ibrahim, S.(2019), “Life Without White Collar: Imperatives for 
Vocational and Entrepreneurial Education: The NYSC th 
Perspective”. Lecture at the 11 Convocation Ceremony of 
Tai Solarin University of Education, Ijagun, Ogun State on th 
Thursday, 28 November, 2019.
Ibrahim, S. (2019), Address by the Director-General, NYSC at the 
Media Parley with Editors, Bureau Chiefs and Youth th 
Correspondents held on Thursday, 15 August, 2019 at 
Barcelona Hotel, Abuja.
Ibrahim, S.(2019), Keynote Address Presented at the Meeting of 
the NYSC Management with Representatives of State th 
Governments, Tuesday, 29 October, 2019, Abuja: 
Sandralia Hotel.
Ibrahim, S.(2020), Address Presented at a Training Workshop on 
NYSC Integrated System for NYSC State Coordinators, 
held at Top Rank Hotels Galaxy, Utako, Abuja on Monday th
10 February, 2020.
TRANSFORMATIONS IN NYSC 305
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

th 
Ibrahim, S.(2020). Selected Speeches and Strides of the 18 NYSC 
Director General. Abuja: Drprint Limited.
Ibrahim, S., “Remarks at the Official Handover of Information 
Technology Equipment to Corps Members by the EU 
Election Observation Mission held at the NYSC Permanent th 
Orientation Camp, Kubwa, FCT on Monday, 17 June, 
2019. Kwaghe, Nuhu S. (2018), “Skills Acquisition and 
Entrepreneurship Development Department,” in Y.S. 
Ehoda-Adiet al ., (eds), National Youth Service Corps th 
Yearbook, 45 Anniversary . Abuja: Drprint Limited.
Momoh, Hafiz B. (1991), “The Journey So Far: An Overview of 
the NYSC Scheme: An Address Presented at the Opening 
of the Workshop on NYSC in the '90s”, Abuja.
Nwolise, O.B.C. (2004), “The NYSC Scheme: An Appraisal of the 
First Decade of Hope,” in Danfulani S.A. and Aja Akpuru- 
Aja (eds.), NYSC in its Fourth Decade: A Strategic Policy 
Outfit for National Development. Ibadan: Spectrum Books.
Tanimu, Yunusa (2020), “Preface” to Selected Speeches and Strides th 
of the 18 NYSC Director-General Brig. Gen. S. Ibrahim. Abuja: 
DrPrint Limited, 2020.
Tsiga, MI. (2010), Working the Talk: A Selection of Speeches by 
Brigadier General M.I. Tsiga, DG NYSC , Abuja: Rollamak 
Resources.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020306
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Chapter Eleven
LEADERSHIP AND THE GROWTH OF NYSC 
SINCE 1973
Okpeh O. Okpeh, Jr.,
Department of History and International Studies 
Federal University of Lafia
&
Godwin O. Odeh
Department of History and International Studies 
Sokoto State University,
Sokoto
Introduction
Always dream and shoot higher than you know you can do. Do 
not bother just to be better than your contemporaries or 1
predecessors. Try to be better than yourself.
The above assertion on personality and leadership exploits by 
William Faulker provides the basis for our understanding of the 
arguments of this chapter. The primary aim of the chapter is to 
isolate and analyze the critical role of leadership in the 
development of the NYSC scheme. The chapter is necessary 
because it would show the link between the essence of 
charismatic leadership and the functionality of institutions in 
the development process. It argues that the programmes of the 
NYSC since its inception in 1973 have revolved around the 
activities of successive Directors General, staff, corps members 
and individuals that have in one way or the other impacted on 
the Nigerian society. In other words, as an instrument of nation 
building, the NYSC scheme has, in its operations over the 
decades, benefitted from the actions of men, women and youths 
across the ethnic and religious divides, who are worthy of 
historical discourse and documentation. 
1
Personality    Quotes, https: //www.goodreads.com.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Leadership and Institutional Transformation
There is an intrinsic relationship between leadership and 
organizational or institutional transformation, which although 
acknowledged, is hardly given the serious attention it deserves. 
It is assumed that although very important, leadership is like 
any other variable in the development process required to 2 
provoke, organize, crystallize and manage change. Such notions 
of leadership while emphasizing its critical role; sees it only as a 
component of the factors needed for change to occur. For our 
purpose here, we advance the position that leadership 
determine success and it is a critical calculus in organizational 
change. As a process which comes with training and experience, 
it is about taking responsibility and inspiring responsibility for 
collective or corporate success. As has been adequately 
emphasized elsewhere, leadership speaks to an extraordinary 
capacity to influence others in a group; uniqueness, calmness 
and an aura that endears one to others; and the ability to lead and 3
having the capacity to deliver on a collective vision.
Wherever leadership manifests, it has a context on which it is 
anchored and within which its relevance stridently manifests. 
Thus, since they do not just happen, institutional leaders are not 
mere people. In a metaphorical sense, such persons are usually 
personages who are best examples of particular professions or 
organizations. leaders within our context connote personalities 
that are best representations of, and who have contributed 
immensely to the NYSC. These personalities are people who 
command respect whenever and wherever their names and the 
scheme are mentioned. They are unique because of the role they 
2
See A. E. Olusoji The Making of a Leader: Exploring the Skills of Effective Leadership (Lagos: 
Leadership Publishing House, 2002); E. Uchendu and P. U. Okpoko, et al (eds.), 
Perspectives on Leadership in Africa (Nsukka, Nigeria: Afro-Orbis Publications, Ltd, 2010); 
I. Hagher, Leadership and Governance: A Christian Perspective (Jos: The Leadership 
Institute, 2002); And Ukoh D. Ikoni, Nigeria: In Search of Credible Leadership: A Reflection on 
50Years of Nigeria as an Independent Nation (Makurdi: Bookmakers Publishing, 2010).3 
See Okpeh O. Okpeh, Jr., “The Concept and Philosophy of ASUU Leadership Model and 
its Relevance to Contemporary Socio-Political Realities”, in O. O. Okpeh, Jr., B. Audu and 
S. Ibrahim (eds.), Trade Unionism, Leadership and Development in Africa (Kaduna: Nigerian 
Defense Academy Press, 2020), 1-15.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020308
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

played or are playing in helping the NYSC fulfill its mandate to 
the nation. In this regard, leadership speaks to particular men 
and women that have in one way or the other interfaced with the 
scheme as founding fathers, Directors General, staff and corps 
members, who have distinguished themselves by virtue of their 
immense contributions to the transformation of the NYSC. The 
rest of the chapter, chronicles the contributions of this categories 
of people to the development of the scheme.
Founding Fathers of the NYSC
This section samples specific leaders who were instrumental to 
the take -off of the NYSC. The first on this list is General Yakubu th 
Gowon (rtd). He was born on the 19 October, 1934. He is a native 
of Pankshin, Jos, Plateau State, Nigeria. He was educated in 
Zaria and consequently became a career military officer. Like 
most officers of his era, General Yakubu Gowon was trained in 
Ghana and England at Sandhurst. As a gallant officer, he was 
engaged in the Nigerian military United Nations peace keeping 
operations in Congo in the opening years of 1960s, (1960, 1961 
and 1963). After the military coup of January 15, 1966, Gowon 
was appointed as Chief of Staff by General Johnson Thomas 
Umunanakwe Aguyi- Ironsi. Consequent upon the counter 
coup of July 1966, Gowon emerged as the Nigerian Head of 
State.
General Gowon's attempt to resolve the ethnic tensions that 
had rocked the nation and the military proved abortive as 
Nigeria descended into a ferocious civil war that lasted from 
1967 to 1970, following the declaration of the Eastern region as 
the Republic of Biafra by Colonel Chukwu Emeka Odumegwu 
Ojukwu. General Gowon presided over the affairs of Nigeria 4
from 1966 to 1975.
The story of the NYSC as an interesting episode in the history 
of Nigerian youth development is intrinsically tied to General 
Yakubu Gowon. The NYSC officially came on board during his 
reign as Head of state. While we acknowledge the fact that the 
4 
See J. I. Elaigwu, Gowon: A Biography (Nok Publishers, 1978)
LEADERSHIP IN THE GROWTH OF NYSC SINCE 1973 309
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Fig. 11: 
histories of modern national youth service schemes vary from 
nations to nation depending on the prevailing socio-economic 
and political condition of each country, Nigeria's experience was 
largely consequent upon the Nigerian civil war. General Yakubu 
Gowon remains the popular founder of the NYSC; although we 
should add that he never independently conceived and executed 5 
the idea. The naming of the scheme's National Directorate 
Headquarters (NDHQ) after him supports the argument that 6 
General Gowon founded the NYSC. The military government 
under him proclaimed the NYSC scheme in 1972, with a target 
General Yakubu Gowon (rtd), GCFR, PhD
5 
G. O. Odeh, “Demilitarizing and Democratizing the Appointment of NYSC Director 
General: Forging Civil- Military Relations” in War, Society and Leadership in Nigeria: Essays 
in Honour of Brigadier General Shaibu Ibrahim, CCC. Osakwe, OE. Tangban, AO. Ahmed 
and L. O. Udeagbala (eds.), Kaduna: Nigerian Defence Academy Press, 2020, pp.23-25.6 
The National Directorae headquarter of the scheme located in in Maitama-Abuja is 
called Gowon House.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020310
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

7 
take off year of 1973. On the occasion of the take-off of the 
scheme Gowon in his inaugural speech, declared that:
Today, Monday, July 2, 1973 marks a new epoch in our 
task of nation building. As all of you, young men and 
women, commence today your one year of national 
youth service, you will be fulfilling in a special way, the 
hopes and aspirations of a nation that puts a great 
premium on the moral and physical development of its 
youths for a better and greater tomorrow. I consider it 
necessary therefore that I should, on this occasion, let 
you know the great importance, which all the 8
governments in the Federation attach to this Scheme.
The unveiling of the scheme before and after the inaugural 
speech and the post July 1973 speech generated unfavorable 
reactions underscoring the fact that at its inception, the NYSC 9 
was greatly misunderstood and greeted with skepticisms.
However, Gowon was not deterred as he went ahead to launch 
the scheme. His foresightedness and ability to circumvent these 
initial hurdles qualify him as the foremost leader in the history of 
the NYSC. At the Second Global Conference on National Youth 
Service held in Abuja in 1994, late General Sani Abacha 
acknowledged the unique place of Gen. Gowon in the affairs of 
the youths thus:
I wish to…express my happiness at the presence of Gen. 
Yakubu Gowon, former Head of State, whose coming 
7 th   
G K.Enegwea, c.76 years, Retiree/NYSC Emeritus; Interviewed at Abuja, 28 April, 
2018. G
K. Enegwea, was the leader of the first batch of NYSC Experts deployed to The Gambia in 
1996 to help established The Gambia National Youth Service Scheme. He was sent ahead 
of his team to conduct two preliminary study of the aim and expectations of the 
envisioned GNYSS. He was one of the NYSC President's awards winners of 
1973/1974(the pioneer set of corps members).8 th 
National Youth Service Corps Year Book, 40 Anniversary Commemorative Edition , (Abuja: 
NYSC National Directorate Headquarters, 2013), p.19.9 
G K. Enegwea, Interview. Read G. Enegwea and G. Umoden, NYSC: Twenty Years of 
National Service, Lagos: Gabumo Publishing, 1993.
LEADERSHIP IN THE GROWTH OF NYSC SINCE 1973 311
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

also demonstrates a high degree of commitment to the 
affairs of the youth. Just three weeks ago, Gen. Gowon 
presided over the National Youth Conference here in 
Abuja, where youths and other concerned with youth 
development discussed the affairs of the youths under ST 
the theme NIGERIA IN THE 21 CENTURY. Gen. 
Gowon is the Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the 
Yakubu Gowon Foundation which organised and held 
that conference. Gowon's presence, may I say, is of 
special symbolic significance to this conference because 
he was the Head of State of Nigeria at the time the 
Federal Government established the National Youth 10
Service 21 years ago.
Abacha aptly captured the iconic role of Gowon as special, 
symbolic and significant; meaning that Gowon has been the face 
and representative of the youths and the NYSC scheme.
Another unique leader of the history of the NYSC is 
Professor Adebayo Adedeji. Professor Adedeji was born in 
Ijebu-Ode, Ogun State in 1930. A very successful and 
distinguished academic, manager, diplomat and political 
leader, he who served Nigeria, Africa and the wider world for 
over four decades in several capacities. He has strings of 
honorary awards bestowed on him by about seven national and 11
international universities.
10 
S. Abacha, Address By the Head of State, Commander-In-Chief of the Armed Forces of 
the Federal Republic of Nigeria at the opening ceremony of the second Global 
Conference on National Youth Service, held in Abuja on Tuesday,11 October,1994,p.3.11 
P. Ejime, “Professor Adebayo Adedeji: An African Cassandra, head of his time”, 
Pambazuka News , https://www.pambazuka.org.;”Prof. Adebayo Adedeji, Life Time 
Achievement Award for Nigeria's Most Outstanding International Economic Icon”, 
Hallmarks of Labour Foundation, https://hallmarksolabour.org; And Curriculum Vitae of 
Professor Adebayo Adedeji, Member of Panel of Eminent Persons (APR PANEL) of the 
African Peer Review Mechanism (APRM).
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020312
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Fig. 12: Professor Adebayo Adedeji
Professor Adedeji was the first head and Chairman of the NYSC 
Directorate Board. With the promulgation of the enabling decree 
that set up the scheme, he was saddled with the onerous task of 
drawing up detailed programmes of training and schedules for 12 
the realisation of the NYSC objectives. In his words:
NYSC is Nigerian in outlook.   I was the first Chairman 
of the National Governing Board, but I left in the 1976 to 
serve in the United Nations; though I was kept th 
informed by Col. Ali (Rtd) then... I also attended the 10th 13 
and 25 Anniversary celebrations of the scheme.
12 th   
National Youth Service Corps Year Book, 40 Anniversary… p.18.13 th   
National Youth Service Corps Year Book, 40 Anniversary…p.25.
LEADERSHIP IN THE GROWTH OF NYSC SINCE 1973 313
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

This shows how closely attached he was with the scheme at its 
infancy stage. The teething problem of the NYSC at the time was 
the challenge of acceptance arising from the nature of disunity in 
the land, which he confronted boldly. Professor Adebayo also 
tackled the twenty first century argument for the abolition of the 
scheme against the backdrop of security challenges thus:
The problem is not NYSC; it is lack of security. Every 
corps member must be given protection by the Federal, 
State and Local Government authorities and the local 
14
communities.
Until his death in 2018, he was an unrepentant apologist of the 
NYSC. His ability to surmount the initial challenges of public 
reactions to the scheme and the wisdom to fine-tune its 
principles for the smooth operations of the scheme makes him a 
unique leader of NYSC. He was not only a trail blazer in the 
15
NYSC, but also one of Nigeria's most outstanding personalities , 
whose name appeared in the 2006 “world's 50 influential 
16
thinkers on development”.
Successive Directors General as Vision Bearers of the Scheme
As indicated on Table 1, since inception in 1973, the NYSC 
scheme has come under the leadership of eighteen Directors 
General (DGs). The politics of how the NYSC DG is appointed is 
not our focus in this chapter. For us, it enough to examine some 
of the achievements of the DGs and show how these 
strengthened the scheme to better fulfill its mandate to the 
nation. In doing this, attention would be focused on their major 
achievements in order to ascertain their contributions to the 
scheme. For ease of analysis, we would take the DGs in group 
based on the prevailing challenges of the period the they served 
14 th 
National Youth Service Corps Year Book, 40 Anniversary …p.25.15 
“Prof. Adebayo Adedeji, Life Time Achievement Award for Nigeria's Most 
Outstanding International Economic Icon” …16 
P. Ejime, “Professor Adebayo Adedeji: An African Cassandra, head of his time”
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020314
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

and the critical issues they had to address to keep the scheme 
afloat. The first set of leaders had their tenure of office during the 
first decade of the existence of the scheme (1973-1983), a period 
that could be appropriately described as the formative years of 
the scheme. The task before DGs of this period was to ensure the 
survival of the NYSC. The DGs of the period under review were 
Col. A.A. Ali (1973-5), Col. S. K. Omojokun (1975- 1979) and Col. 
P K.Obasa (1979-1983).
Table 9: Directors General of the NYSC and their Contributions to the 
Scheme, 1973-2020
LEADERSHIP IN THE GROWTH OF NYSC SINCE 1973 315
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020316
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Source: Researchers Field work, 2020
Col. Ali was the pioneer Director General of the NYSC. He 
managed and operated the scheme between 1973 and August, 
1975. With Professor Adebayo Adedeji, he designed the 
paramilitary component of the Scheme Orientation Course. To 
enhance quality, he toured Britain and the United States to learn 
LEADERSHIP IN THE GROWTH OF NYSC SINCE 1973 317
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

how similar schemes were operated. In Nigeria, he visited 
universities and states to delivered lectures on the gains and 
prospects of the newly birthed NYSC. He, thus, helped in 
17 
quelling protests against the scheme across the country. He did 
the enlightenment visits and talks along with the likes of General 
Gowon and Professor Adebayo. The pioneering role of Ali is best 
captured by Adedeji in his assertion that:
The scheme would not have taken off so smoothly in 
so short a time, across so vast and diverse a country, 
without the hard work, determination and vision of 
18
Colonel Ali.
Col. Ali was saddled with the enormous task of starting the 
scheme at the most difficult time in nation's history. Nigeria just 
survived a war of disintegration and NYSC was designed to heal 
the country of the scars of war. The role Ali played in preparing 
the stage for subsequent leadership of the scheme is captured by 
Enegwea thus:
If there is a Director General that deserves to be an icon 
of the NYSC, it should and must be Col. Ali. He came in 
at a turbulent time and put the scheme on the path of 
success, which successive DGs appeared to have been 
building upon. Ali, therefore, qualifies as and remains 
19
one of the icons of the NYSC.
Col. Ali was succeeded by Col. S. K. Omojokun in 1975. He 
generally continued with the policies of his predecessor and was 
able to lay a sound footing for the scheme to thrive. He would be 
remembered for the discipline he instilled on both staff of the 
scheme and corps members during his tenure of office. It is also a 
17 
“The many colours of a Rainbow: A Review Ahmadu Ali's  biography, https:// 
www.thecables.com.18      
G K. Enegwea and G E.Umoden, NYSC: Twenty Years of National Service, Abuja: NYSC 
National Directorate Headquarters, 1993, p.121.19    
G K. Enegwea, Interview.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020318
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

credit to his charisma and leadership that some of the challenges 
associated with the expansion of the scheme during this period 
were resolutely tackled. Col. S. K. Omojokun handed over an 
NYSC scheme whose future of effectively contributing to the 
development of the country was guaranteed.
Col. P. K. Obasa assumed leadership at the wake of the 
Second Republic, during which the country was already feeling 
the full weight of the plummeting of petrodollars, as the 
economy was experiencing strains. Coupled with the burden of 
financing the presidential system of government and what 
appeared to be the recklessness of the political leaders of the 
time, it was clear that a recession was in the offing which was to 
have its toll on the operations of the NYSC. Col. Obasa devoted 
his time on the policy of expanding the scheme which was 
started by his predecessors. He would be remembered for 
insisting on the professionalization of the scheme through the 
promotion of discipline amongst staff of the scheme and corps 
members. Although the twilight of his tenure of office was quite 20 
turbulent, Col. Obasa did his best to mainstream the NYSC in 
the development process during the period under review.
It was against this background that the second category of 
the touch bearers of the scheme emerged between 1983-1999, a 
period characterized by growth of the scheme and rapid 
21 
expansion of its policies and programmes. The DGs of this era 
include Col. E. A. Akpan (1983-1987), Col. A. Briamoh (1987-
1990), Col. Hafiz Momoh (1990-1994), Brig Gen S. A. Sofoluwe 
(1994-1996) and Col. (later) Brig Gen S. M. Dule (1996-1999). The 
focus of the leadership of the scheme during this period was to 
reposition the NYSC to meet emerging challenges of national 
20 
There were allegations and counter-allegations of corruption which negatively affected 
the image of the scheme. We must add that these allegations appear to be part of the 
general perception of office holders during the Second Republic which became part of 
the justification for military coup of the time. For details of some of these see G K. 
Enegwea and G. E.Umoden, NYSC: Twenty Years of National Service ; T. Falola and J. O. 
Ihonvbere (eds.) The Rise and Fall of the Second Republic, 1979-1983 (London: Zed Books, 
1985).21
The period is generally considered the Golden Era of the NYSC because of the 
remarkable restructuring it experienced and its quantum contributions to nation 
building.
LEADERSHIP IN THE GROWTH OF NYSC SINCE 1973 319
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

development. In order to do this more effectively, the DGs of this 
period focused on the NYSC as a social institution, the need to 
reinvigorate its structure against the backdrop of expanding 
population of corps members, and more importantly, the 
imperative of instilling discipline and commitment. Thus, while 
Col. Akpan is noted for improving the corporate image of the 
NYSC; introducing fiscal discipline in the operations of the 
scheme; restoring discipline in the scheme; and motivating staff 
and corps members; Col. A. Braimoh is noted for improving the 
welfare of corps members and facilitating the movement of the 
headquarters of the scheme to the Abuja, the Federal Capital 
Territory. A charismatic DG, Braimoh operationalised a 
transparent way of carrying out the business of the NYSC 
scheme.
Col. H. Momoh took over the National leadership of the 
NYSC between 1990 and 1994. Under his watch, the scheme 
witnessed a lot of radical and fundamental changes some of 
which are itemised below:
a. He was the first to bring entrepreneurial training to the 
scheme through involvement of the National Directorate of 
Employment (NDE), which was to become Skills Acquisition 
and Entrepreneurship and Development (SAED), erroneously 
believed to have begun in 2012;
b. He spearheaded and actualised upward review of corps 
members allowance by 100 per cent, first in the history of 
NYSC;
c. He was the first to have negotiated with the Directorate of 
Technical Aids Corps for the engagement of exceptional and 
successful corps members in youth development 
programmes within and outside Nigeria, thereby laying the 
foundation for graduates' participation in Africa and other 
form of overseas volunteers programmes;
d. Introduction of insurance package that guarantee 
compensation to families in the event of the death of aserving 
corps member;
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020320
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

th 
e. The tenure witnessed the promulgation of Decree 51 of 16
nd 
June 1993 that repealed NYSC Act Decree 24 of the 22 of 
May, 1973, which is today referred to as NYSC Act CAP84 
22
Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004.
The Act on its own brought about a lot of blessings to the 
scheme by revolutionising it in the following ways;
i. It made adequate provisions for the establishment of Zonal 
offices thereby drawing the activities of corps members to the 
grassroots, in addition to the establishment of Local 
Committees across the 774 Local Government Areas in the 
country;
ii. The Committees it created ensures the security and welfare 
of corps members, which would go a long way in mitigating 
the security challenges confronting the scheme in the twenty 
first century;
iii. It changed the office designate of the leadership of the 
scheme from National Director to Director General (thereby 
23
making the military to take proper hold of the scheme.
Furthermore, it was during his tenure that the First Global 
Conference on National Youth Service was held in Racine, th st 
Wisconsin, USA, from 18 to 21 June 1992. This conference was 
to remain a reference point in the history of the NYSC. Major 
General Hafiz Momoh himself, Gregory Kas Enegwea (now an 
Emeritus of National Youth Service), Mr. E.S. Essien and other 
participants from fourteen countries attended the conference. It 
was at the conference that Nigeria was given the privilege of 
22
"NYSC pays tribute to General Hafiz Momoh” Prnigeria.com. delivered. G O. Odeh, 
“Demilitarizing and Democratizing the Appointment of NYSC Director General: th   
Forging Civil- Military Relations”, pp.24-26. National Youth Service  Corps Year Book, 40th 
Anniversary… pp.15-17. National Youth Service Year Book, 45 Anniversary 
Commemorative Edition, Abuja: NDQH,2018, p. 16.23 
G O. Odeh, “Demilitarizing and Democratizing the Appointment of NYSC Director 
General: Forging Civil- Military Relations” p.25. “NYSSC pays tribute to Gen.Hafiz 
Momoh” Prnigeria.com.
LEADERSHIP IN THE GROWTH OF NYSC SINCE 1973 321
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

24 
hosting the second edition in 1994. Against the backdrop of the 
above achievements, among others, the current Director General 
of the NYSC, Brigadier General Ibrahim, described, Momoh, 
thus: 
A dynamic and charismatic officer who initiated a lot of 
positive changes during his tenure as Director- 
General, thus deepening the relevance and 
contributions of the scheme to the overall national 25
development.
A visionary with to the core, Col. Hafiz handed a more 
responsive NYSC to his successor, Brig. Gen. S. A. Sofoluwe in 
1994.
Between 1994 and 1999, the beginning of the new democratic 
dispensation, the NYSC was headed by Brig. Gen. Sofoluwe and 
Col. (later) Brig. Gen. S. M. Dule. This period coincided with the 
agitations for democracy and the withdrawal of the military 
from the political process. The NYSC keyed into the transition 
activities of the period and contributed through its programmes 
and the patriotic activities of corps members to the realisation of 
a smooth transition to civil administration in 1999. Brig. Gen. 
Sofoluwe completed some of the radical policies and 
programmes of General Momoh and is noted for promoting 
internal cohesion between corps members across the country. 
Brig. Gen. Dule conceptualised and designed the National 
Directorate Head Quarter building of the scheme and also 
facilitated the award of the contract for the commencement of its 
construction. This is in addition to establishing the NYSC 
Foundation. These are undoubtedly modest contributions that 
repositioned the scheme for further greater attainments. 
24 
G O. Odeh, Nigeria NYSC's Role in the Founding of The Gambian National Youth Service, 
1996- 2004 , A PhD Dissertation Submitted to the Department of History and 
International Studies, Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, 2019, pp..107-113. See also, 
1992 and 1994 conferences, see, S A. Sofoluwe, Circular, 1994 Global Conference on National 
Youth Service, NYSC/DG/153/ 5.9/Sec/Vol.VI/391, 20th July, 1994. Nigel Watt, 
Conference Communiqué –Towards Global Youth Service1994, (NYSC Archive, National 
Directorate Headquarters, Abuja: GC/94/ 21).25 
“NYSSC pays tribute to  Gen.Hafiz  Momoh” Prnigeria.com.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020322
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Regarded as one of the most unstable periods in the 
leadership history of the NYSC, the era between 1999-2009, 
experienced five personalities at the helm of its affairs. These 
include Brig. Gen. P. O. Ogunkoya (1999-2002); Rev P. O. 
Okunromade (Jan - March, 2002); Police Commissioner S. I. 
Emoikaro (March - May 2002); Big Gen W. Oki (2002-2004); and 
Brig. Gen. Y. Bomoi (2004-2009). In addition to the appointment 
of paramilitary officers and civilians to head the organisation, 
the period was marked by leadership instability as a result of 
which very little innovative changes occurred in the operations 26 
of the scheme. While General Ogunkoya is noted for expanding 
the scheme's programmes, facilitating a regular interface 
between the NYSC and employers of labour and promoting 
accountability in the scheme's head quarters; Reverend 
Okunromade encouraged accountability of staff of the NYSC, 
promoted attitudinal re-orientation in the scheme through the 
promotion of the fear of God and facilitated increased 
humanitarian activities amongst corps members. On his part, 
Police Commissioner S. I. Emoikaro focused on efficient service 
delivery of the NYSC, corporate solidarity and corps members 
discipline. Brig. Gen. Oki attempted to reposition the scheme in 
line with its pristine mandate, enforced discipline of both staff of 
the scheme and corps members. He also promoted the welfare of 
the staff of the NYSC.
Brigadier General Yusuf Bomoi became the NYSC DG at a 27 
time the scheme was in desperate need of far-reaching reforms.
He was the second former corps member to pilot the affairs of 
the scheme after General Oki. The question of NYSC's relevance 
which began under General Oki became loudest during his 
tenure, and this is probably because of the hangover of the 
challenges from the previous administrations, particularly the 
immediate one. The following, among others, are General 
Bomoi's major achievements: 
26 
In the year 2002 alone, such instability saw some of those appointed to head the 
organization serving for just few months. This was the case of Police Commissioner S. I 
Emoikori and Rev.
P. O. Okunromade.27 
M. Onochie, “Ex-NYSC DG Bomoi Dies at 60” Daily Trust, https://dailytrust.com.
LEADERSHIP IN THE GROWTH OF NYSC SINCE 1973 323
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

a. Moving the NYSC to its headquarters plot in “Gowon 
House” Maitama, Abuja;
b. Reinvigoration of NYSC moribund projects and 
programmes such as President's Awards, NYSC Sport/ 
Cultural festival, Corp Forum, etc.;
c. Initiation of structural empowerment of NYSC Zonal offices;
d. Constructions of NYSC permanent orientation camps in 
Osun, Katsina, among others;
e. Deployment of media outlets to intimate people about 
development in the scheme, thereby building confidence 
and creating a sense of belonging among stake holders in the 
scheme;
f. Increasing the number of projects embarked upon by corps 
members in rural areas;
g. Increment of the allowances of the corps members and the 
staff;
h. Reduction in cases of rejection of corps members by 
employers of labor;
i. Clearing of backlogs of promotion and recruitment of over 
28
1000 senior staff.
In light of the above and other achievements, a former DG of 
the scheme, Tsiga, describes Bomoi as, “a pragmatic and 
inclusive leader whose sense of innovation and compassionate 
29 
disposition endeared him to the hearts of all”. He is also 
30 
described as a “think tank and a welfarist of no mean standing.”
Idoga sums up the personality of General Bomoi as follows:
28 
A. Idoga, Interview. A C.Ani, Interview. G. F, Anyia, Interview. J. Oba, “Adieu, Bomoi, 
NYSC Programmatic DG”, Blue Print, https://www.blueprint.ng. The author served in 
Abuja and personally observed some of development during Bomoi's years. The 
development fired his ambition to write a book titled; The National Youth Service Scheme 
and Challenge of Nation Building in Nigeria (1973 -2008) . The book ends with the debate 
question, “Should NYSC Remain?”.29 
A. Adedigba, “Ex-NYSC Yusuf Bomoi is dead” in Premium Times , https:// 
www.premiumtimesng.com.30 
A C.Ani, Interview. G F. Anyia, Interview.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020324
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Yusuf Bomoi was pragmatic and a 
lover of human beings. Prior to Bomoi's adminstration, 
no NYSC staff could boast of owning car or having built 
a house. With his coming however, the whole place at 
the NDHQ became awash with cars. He had a 
31
pragmatic touch with the people.
1999 to date is could generally be regarded as the era of great 
reforms and quantum leap in the fortunes of the NYSC scheme 
and its contributions to nation building. This is notwithstanding 
the teething challenges the nation had to contend with in this era. 
In the period under review, the scheme had five pragmatic DGs 
who were/are all reformers in their own right. They include 
Brig. Gen. M. I. Tsiga (2009-20011), Brig. Gen. N. T. Okorie-Affia 
(2011- 2014), Brig. Gen. J. R. Olawumi (2014-2016), Maj. General 
S. Z. Kazaure (2016-2019) and Brig. Gen. S. Ibrahim (2019 to 
date). We should add that the great strides of the period was due 
largely to the relative stability in the leadership of the NYSC and 
the impact of the transformation agenda of the military as an 
institution on the scheme. This is in addition to the leadership 
style of these DGs and their commitment to the scheme. For 
example, while Brig. Gen. Tsiga is reputed to have prioritized 
the welfare and security of corps members; improved the 
welfare of the staff of the scheme through incentives and 
promotion exercises; strengthened the grassroots 
administrative structure of the NYSC; integrated monotechnics 
and professional institutions into the NYSC scheme; and 
revamped obsolete and decaying infrastructures. These 
undoubtedly impacted positively on the performance of the 
32
scheme.
Brig. Gen. N. T. Okorie-Affia succeeded General Tsiga and he
is remembered for implemented the newly approved 
administrative  structure  of the  scheme;  deepening  and 
31     
A. Idoga, Interview.32 
M. Onochie, “ Looking at Reforms in NYSC under Tsiga”, Daily Trust, 
https//dailytrust.com accessed on 23/3/2021.
LEADERSHIP IN THE GROWTH OF NYSC SINCE 1973 325
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

strengthening of the mobilization and utilization of corps 
members' manpower for national development; and 
harmonizing NYSC policies into a single document. This is 
besides ensuring compliance with profession ethics and code of 
conduct of both staff and corps members. Okorie-Affia handed 
over the Brig. Gen. J. R. Olawumi who is noted to have improved 
the service content of the scheme, ensured the welfare and safety 
of corps members and staff, enhanced partnership for greater 
impact, funding and support; and increased the visibility and 
33 
relevance of the scheme. He has been described as a real leader 
who could go to any length to save the life of corps member and 
34 
staff. He was also reputed to have established the NYSC bread 
35
and bottle water factories in Kubwa, Abuja.
Brigadier Sulieman S. Kazaure took over from Brigadier 
General Johnson Bamidele Olawumi in 2016. His administration 
was epochal in the history of the NYSC in light of emerging 
nation building problems in the country. Inflationary rates had 
soared making a mess of corps members allowance; insecurity 
across the country was on the increase thereby implicating the 
mandate of the scheme, which is selfless service to the nation; 
and there was a general dwindling of national sentiments 
arising the inability of the democratic experience to deliver on 
key promises. 
33   
“Change of Guard at NYSC”, ThisDay, Thisdaylive.com.34
Opinion gathered from diverse sources suggests that General Johnson Bamidele Olawumi 
possessed essential leadership qualities which endeared him to the staff of the scheme and 
corps members.35 
A. C. Ani, Interview. J. Odeh, c30 years, Lawyer and Ex-corps member, interviewed at rd  
Abuja on 23 December, 2020.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020326
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Fig. 13: Handingover Ceremony from Maj. Gen. Kazaure to Brig. Gen. 
Ibrahim, May 2019
Against this backdrop, Brigadier Kazuare articulated his 
administration's policy direction as focusing on the following 
areas:
a. Consolidating on the achievements of previous 
administrations and breaking new grounds;
b. Motivation of staff through enhancement of welfare 
provisions;
c. Improving the welfare and security of corps members; and
d. Expanding the Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship 
Development (SAED) through establishment of more 
centers, and greater stakeholder involvement for skill and 
36
material support.
36 th   
National Youth Service Year Book, 45 Anniversary... p. 51.
LEADERSHIP IN THE GROWTH OF NYSC SINCE 1973 327
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The DG initiated a number of projects which his successor 
carried to their logical conclusions. Of these, he is noted for the 
creativity he brought to mobilisation and orientation strategies 
of streams 1 and 2 of batches (A, B and C) and sustaining of the 
routine operations of the scheme despite corps population 
increase. This is in addition to initiating the move for an upward 
review of corps members allowance.
Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim whose administration is 
still ongoing assumed the leadership of the NYSC scheme in 
May 2019. It is generally agreed that the scheme has been 
experiencing a new lease of life at all fronts since he took over as 
DG. On assumption of duty, General Ibrahim rolled out a 5-
point policy thrust, with a view to making the NYSC scheme 
more relevant, in accordance with the provisions of its founding 
Act. He has been pursuing this vision of his administration 
vigorously and with fervor. First, General Ibrahim has 
relentlessly waged war against the presentation of unqualified 
persons for mobilization for national service, especially by some 
institutions of higher learning across Africa. This effort has 
drastically minimized the participation of unqualified persons 
in national service earned the NYSC accolades from both local 
and foreign universities.
Another milestone recorded within this short period is  the 
revamping and rebranding of NYSC's Ventures for revenue 
generation. The quest has resulted in complete turnaround as a 
result of which NYSC table water and bread are presently out 
there in the market. In the same vein, the scheme's garment 
factories in Niger and Anambra states, as well as NYSC farms 
across the country are being re-invigorated for greater 
productivity. Under his watch, the scheme has extended its 
tentacles to the creative industry through the production of 
NYSC movie titled “NYSC: A Call to Service” and restructuring 
the NYSC entertainment initiatives which is presently registered 
with the Corporate Affairs Commission as “NYSC Wood”, 
thereby exposing corps members to the limitless opportunities 
which abounds in this sector.Through these modest efforts, it is 
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020328
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

on record that the NYSC generated over 280 Million Naira for 37
the nation's coffers.
Other spectacular achievements of Brigadier General 
Ibrahim include but not limited to:
• Pursuance of the upward review of Corps members' 
allowance from N19,800.00 to N33,000.00.
• Galvanizing Corps members ingenuity towards the national 
efforts to contain the COVID-19 pandemic as characterized 
by production and free distribution of face masks, antiseptic 
liquid soaps, hand sanitizers, automated disinfection/ 
decontamination machines, sample collection booth, online 
lessons for students in exit classes nationwide as well as 
sensitization and distribution of palliatives to indigent 
persons across the country.
• Creating a well mobilized and sensitized corps members 
who are happy to serve the country in whatever capacity. 
The excitement and zeal with which corps members operate 
in their areas of primary assignments has been associated 
with the quality of leadership of the scheme and 
particularly, the DG's commitment to corps members' 
welfare.
• Establishment of take off Area Offices in the six geographical 38
zones to be manned by GL-17 officers of the scheme.
• Strengthening of inter-agency collaboration between the 
NYSC and other government agencies and between NYSC 
and international bodies. Such collaborative efforts are 
already yielding positive results across the country.
General Ibrahim's take on the NYSC Act stands him out and 
puts him on track as a peer of Brig. Momoh. This is because there 
is an intrinsic nexus between the capacity of an organization 
37 
Interview with  the Director of   Special Duties (DG's Office), 10/03/2021,  Abuja38 
B. J. Audu, “Brig.Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim and the reinvigoration of NYSC” in War, Society 
and Leadership in Nigeria: Essays in Honour of Brigadier General Shaibu Ibrahim , C. C. C. 
Osakwe, O E. Tangban, A. O. Ahmed and L. O. Udeagbala (eds), Kaduna: Nigerian 
Defence Academy Press, 2020, pp.11-15. D. Akpala, Interview. A. Idoga, Interview. G F. 
Anyia, Interview. J. Odeh, Interview.
LEADERSHIP IN THE GROWTH OF NYSC SINCE 1973 329
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

such as the NYSC and the extent to which it adheres to its 
founding laws. Running an institution without recourse to its 
enabling laws is tantamount to using electronics without the 
operator's manual. This is the premise of the DG's titanic 
confrontation with fake institutions of higher learning in Nigeria 
and neighboring West Africa countries. Also, his administration 
has been able to address such nagging issues like mobilisation in 
error, being mobilised for service after having served up to or 
over nine months in the military or the paramilitary, and other 39 
related problems which were prevalent prior to his advent.
Moreover, monthly clearance for corps members being 
carelessly handled had to stop through the full deployment of 
information technology. Currently, all such issues are handled 
electronically following the full digitization and connection of 
NYSC state offices with the National Directorate Headquarters, 40
Abuja, thereby transparency, accountability and productivity.
Fig. 14: Past Directors General of NYSC, 1973 - Date
  
Col. A A Ali
(1973-1975)
 
   
  Col. SK Makojunla
(1975-1979)
 
 
  
 Col. PK Obasa
(1979-1983)
 
  Col. Akpan
(1983-1987)
Col. A. Briamoh
(1988-1990)
Brig. Gen. H. B Momoh
(1990-1994)
Brig. Gen. S A.
Sofoluwe
(1994-1996)
Col. (later) Brig Gen S
M. Dule
(1996 -1999)
39
D. Akpala, Interview.40 
D. Akpala, Interview.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020330
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brig. Gen. W. Oki
(2002-2004 )
Col.
 
(later)
 
Brig Gen S M.
Dule
(1996-1999)
Col.
 
A A Ali
 
(1973-1975)
 
  
Col.
 
SK
 
Makojunla
 
(1975-1979)
 
  
Col. PK
 
Obasa
 
(1979-1983)
 
 
Col. Akpan
(1983-1987)
 
Col. A. Briamoh
 
(1988-1990)
 
  
Brig. Gen. H. B
 
Momoh
 
(1990-1994)
 
  
Brig. Gen. S A.
 
Sofoluwe
 
(1994-1996)
 
 
Brig Gen K. O. Ogunkoya
(1999-2000 & 2000-2002)
Police Com S. I. Ewokan
(2002-2002 )
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rev. P. O. Okunromade
(2002--2002)
LEADERSHIP IN THE GROWTH OF NYSC SINCE 1973 331
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brig. Gen. S. Z. Kazaure
(2016-2019
Brig. Gen. S. Ibrahim
(2019 - Date)
Against the backdrop of the foregoing, it is clear that Brigadier 
General Shuaibu Ibrahim has achieved so much within a short 
time in such a turbulent period. His charismatic leadership 
during the COVID-19 lockdown is generally believed to be at the 
very centre of the accolades the scheme received from a broad 41 
spectrum of Nigerians and even abroad. For this reasons and 
many more, a feschriften was recently put together in his honour 42 
by his colleagues.
NYSC Staff as Leaders
Apart from the categories we have examined in the preceding 
sections, there are career NYSC staff that have made their marks 
that eminently qualify to be described as leaders of the scheme. 
41 
A. Idoga, Interview. G F.Anyia, Interview. We must add that the exemplary 
performance of corps members in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic across the 
country would remain a major achievement of the NYSC under the leadership of General 
Ibrahim.42 
The book is titled, War, Society and Leadership in Nigeria: Essays in Honour of Brigadier 
General Shaibu Ibrahim, edited by CCC. Osakwe, O E. Tangban, A O. Ahmed and LO.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020332
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Though picking a few persons as outstanding staff out of a legion 
may be problematic, we must add that the contributions of those 
selected are not in doubt. For our purpose, Chief Gregory Kas 
Enegwea retired, Mr. Anthony Chinwuba Ani retired, Victoria 
Ango and all members of the NYSC technical team sent to The 
Gambia to help establish and run the country's National Youth 
Service, among others; have distinguished themselves as key 
drivers of the scheme.
Enegwea joined the services of the NYSC as a career staff in 
1976 as Inspector I and rose through to the rank of a Director in 
January 1989 before retiring on May 14, 2003. Chief Enegwea 
therefore had an outstanding career that spanned twenty-seven 
years. At the National Directorate Headquarters, he served in 
different capacities in directorate positions and was a State 43 
Director in old Bendel State, Benue and Bauchi Secretariats. A 
Director General of the NYSC once described him thus:
As a pathfinder, Chief Enegwea pioneered a number 
of Community Development Service (CDS) projects 
comprising the NYSC shoe factory, auto-mechanic 
workshop, and the production of KOPAVITA (a 
cassava derivative), borne out of his concern for the 
post service employment career of serving corps 44
members.
The above have continued to inspire a lot of similar 
innovations in the area of skills acquisition and preparation of 
corps members for the challenges of the post service year.
He also pioneered a six–man technical team of the NYSC 
drawn from the six geopolitical zones, which helped to establish 
and run The Gambia National Youth Service Scheme which took 
off in 1996. This was considered a momentous achievement. 
Prior to the arrival of the team, he was sent for six weeks 
preliminary investigation of the aim and expectation of the 
43 
See the back cover of NYSC: Twenty Years of National Service. Current Vitae of Gregory Kas 
Enegwea.44 
P R. Imienwarin, Press Release, Pioneer NYSC Member Appointed Administrator of Gambia Youth nd 
Service, NYSC/NDHQ/PRD/T.2, 2 January,  1996. (Chief Enegwea Personal File).
LEADERSHIP IN THE GROWTH OF NYSC SINCE 1973 333
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

45
scheme. As a veteran television programme presenter and short 
story writer, his celebrated co- authored work titled, NYSC: 
Twenty Years of National Service (1993) remains one of the most 
foundational resource materials on the scheme. At seventy-nine, 
Chief Enegwea is still widely consulted in his chosen career of 
the National Youth Service.
Next is Mr. Anthony Chinwuba Ani who joined the NYSC as 
Agricultural Officer I through transfer of service and was later 
swopped to the Inspectorate cadre from where he rose through 46 
to a Directorate in 2012. He retired from the service of the 
scheme in 2017. While in service, Ani served in different 
capacities at the National Directorate Headquarters and at 
different state Secretariats. Outstandingly, Mr. Ani was the first 
Director of Information and Communication Technology 
Department. He has also served as state Director in Kano, Lagos, 47 
and Nasarawa, respectively. He is noted for the following 
innovations:
a. Provision of ICT facilities to all departments at the National 
Directorate Headquarters;
b. Digitalisation of mobilisation processes in a manner that 
helped to solve the cumbersome nature of the manual one, 
thereby eliminating the problem of gathering all foreign 
graduates in Abuja, the risks involved in prospective corps 
members traveling to get call-up letters, fraudsters getting 
fake call-up letters, serving by proxy due to lack of picture on 
call-up letters, among others;
c. Introduction of biometrics for camp registration;
d. Introduction of the distribution of kits on platoon basis, 
rather than gathering corps members at one spot;
e. Accommodation of corps members before kits collection;
f. Introduction of drill competition that serves as motivating 
factor for self-practicing parade by corps members; 
45
P R. Imienwarin, Press Release, Pioneer NYSC Member Appointed Administrator of Gambia nd 
Youth Service , NYSC/NDHQ/PRD/T.2, 2 January,  1996. (Chief Enegwea Personal 
File).46 
See Curriculum Vitae of Mr. Anthony Chinwuba Ani.47 th   
National Youth Service Corps Year Book, 40 Anniversary… pp.135-136.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020334
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

g. Revival of cultural heritage with the late Mr. Frank Ekpunobi 
through initiation of the ideas of wearing cultural 
attire/dress by corps members every last Saturdays of the 
camping programme;
h. Generating revenue for the scheme, particularly through the 
NYSC-Private Sector Partnerships and;
i. Getting Kano State Government to construct one of the best 
48
orientation camps in the country in 2007.
The above are significant achievements that have aided in the 
running of the NYSC and would no doubt go a long way in the 
overall development of the scheme. Apart from being regarded 
as a leader of the scheme as a result of the meritorious services he 
had rendered to the system, he has received commendation from 
the NYSC Secretariat in Kwara State in 1988, Staff Merit Award 
in 1993 from the Lagos State NYSC Secretariat, NDHQ NYSC 
49
Merit Award in 1993 and Lagos State Commendation, 2010.
There is also Mrs. Victoria Ango who was employed as an 
NYSC staff on the rank of an Inspector and rose through the 50 
ranks to the become a Director. A particularly gentle and 
diligent woman, Mrs. Ango served in different capacities 
including NYSC state Coordinator in Yobe and Kaduna in 2012, 
and was also a member of the first batch of NYSC experts 51 
deployed to The Gambia in 1996. In her characteristic 
assiduousness and resilience, Mrs. Ango embarked on corps 
mobilisation and re-opened camps across the nation in the face 
of COVID-19, undermining the general fears prevalent at the 
time and in so doing, demystifying the dreadful pandemic. This 
feat stands her out as a woman of indomitable courage and 
substance. She is remembered as the courageous Director of 
Mobilisation who gave hope,  encouragement and courage to 
48   st    
A C.Ani, c63 years, Retired NYSC Director, Interviewed at Enugu 21 December, 2020.th   
National Youth Service Corps Year Book, 40 Anniversary… pp.134-135.49 th   
National Youth Service Corps Year Book, 40 Anniversary… p.136.50     
Mrs. Ango Victoria Curriculum Vitae.51 th   
National Youth Service Corps Year Book, 40 Anniversary… pp.221-222.
LEADERSHIP IN THE GROWTH OF NYSC SINCE 1973 335
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

both corps members and staff at a moment of a great anxiety and 
uncertainty.
The members of the four batches of the NYSC experts 
deployed to The Gambia between 1996 and 2004 aptly fit into 
this category of leaders who built the NYSC scheme. Though 
some people have argued that politics had a hand in the selection 
process, the fact remains that this critical assignment which was 
an aspect of Nigeria's diplomacy, elevated these personalities as 
patriotic Nigerians. Secondly, since the nomination was done 
without the knowledge of the officers, and anchored on their 
resourcefulness, innovativeness and the culture of discipline at 
work, all of which were expected to be reproduced in the West 
African sub-region; we can confidently say the process was on 
merit. Finally, the country to which they were deployed saw 
them as models and perfect representatives of the NYSC, an 
image they sustained throughout their stay and even till date as 
they are still being remembered and celebrated in the Republic 
of The Gambia. Mbaye further buttresses this point when he 
declares thus:
The team of NYSC experts sent to The Gambia to help 
establish and run the Youth Service portrayed well the 
image of Nigeria and the scheme beyond the shores of 
the biggest African democracy and economy. They are 
icons of GNYSS and we see them as icons of NYSC too, 
because of the symbolic roles they played to the two 
schemes. They were honored here and we still honor 
them and the NYSC. No Gambian of the Ministry of 
Youths and Sports travelled to Nigeria including our 
minister returns home without going to the famous 
Yakubu Gowon House to thank successive NYSC 
Directors General and greet members of the team that 
are still in service. We still have the contacts of the 
members of the NYSC team and do call to greet and 52
thank them for the great work and epic representation.
52 
M. Mbaye, Interview.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020336
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The above observation underscores the critical role played by 
this team of experts, divided into four batches. The first batch 
(1996- 1998) comprised: Gregory Kas Enegwea, retired 
(identified and discussed already) Mr. Anthony A. Enweonwu 
(of blessed memory), Mr. E. E. Akinola, Mr. Nuhu S. Kwaghe, 
Solomon O. Ochim (retired) and Mrs. Victoria Ango (also 
identified and discussed already). The second batch (1998-2000) 
was made up of Gabriel Ojo Alonge (retired), Habibu O. Kurawa 
(retired) and the late Miss. Dorothy Ogbudu. The third batch 
(2000-2002) was composed of Miss. Funke Eniola O. Ambekemo, 
Chief Gregory Anya and Mr. Adamu Emmanuel, while the 
fourth and final batch (2002 - January, 2005) was made up of Mr. 
53
Aloysius O. Idoga and Miss. Tete Ukpong.
Back home, while some may argue that there is nothing 
spectacular in sending people to The Gambia, it should be noted 
that any country that wants to be internationally recognised 
does not have to necessarily solve all her problems before 
helping others and commanding respect globally. Emphassising 
ths point, Professor Bolaji Akinyemi notes that:
It is true that we have slums and untarred roads, and it 
is true that we have social problems. But is there any 
country that is free of these problems? Is there any 
country that has finished solving all its social problems 
before it has to concentrate efforts on creating a nation 
that commands respect? That's the word: a nation that 
54
commands respect.
Therefore, the historic role the team played and the respect they 
commanded in the founding of the National Youth Service for 
the Republic of The Gambia qualifies them as leaders in the 
NYSC. 
53 
G O. Odeh, Nigeria NYSC's Role in the Founding of The Gambian National Youth Service, 
1996- 2004,pp. 116-123.54 
G. Umoden, The  Babangida Years, Lagos: Gabumo, 1992,  p.188.
LEADERSHIP IN THE GROWTH OF NYSC SINCE 1973 337
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Finally, our list of leaders in the NYSC would be incomplete 
without a word on those who, for want of a better word we will 
refer to as “silent achievers”. While the activities of some leaders 
may be visible, there are always invisible and intangible services 
and sacrifices that staff of the scheme in various capacities and 
levels may have made since 1973 that are not immediately 
noticed or even acknowledged. In other words, leaders abound 
in every segment of the Directorate, some from the rank of 
drivers and/or cleaners to the rank of middle cadre 
administrators. These are our silent achievers without whose 
efforts the scheme would not have attained its current status as a 
foremost change agent in contemporary Nigeria.
The NYSC President's Honours Award
President's Honours Award is an essential component of the 
NYSC scheme inaugurated and practiced since the era of the 
pioneering set of the corps members. It is different from Local 
Government and State Awards. As a deliberate policy targeted 
at motivation of corps members, the President's Honours Award 
revolves around four main programmes of the of NYSC namely; 
Orientation Course, Primary Assignment, Community 
Development Service (Group and Individual) and the Winding-
55 
up and Passing-Out Parade. Since it is a development - 
engineering programme, the bulk of the award winners are 
expected to come from rural areas where there are enormous 
development needs. Thus, the evaluation, monitoring and 
selection process starts from Orientation Course through the 
Local Government /States and the best nominee(s) are then 
forwarded to the NYSC National Directorate Headquarters 
(now in Abuja) for final screening by the National Selection 
56 
Committee. To make the selection process objective, the 
National Selection Committee is composed of independent and 
multilayered body drawn from vital stakeholders of the nation's 
55 th   
National Youth Service Corps Year Book, 40 Anniversary… p.299.56 th   
D. Akapala, Interview. National Youth Service Corps Year Book, 40 Anniversary… p.299.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020338
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

economy that are relevant to the mechanics of the NYSC scheme. 
The Committee is composed of the representatives of the 
following:
a. Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation 
(OSGF-Presidency);
b. NYSC Supervising Ministry (Federal Ministry  of Youth 
Development and Sports);
c. The Nigerian Army;
d. The Nigerian Police;
e. Committee of Vice Chancellors of Nigerian Federal 
Universities;
f. Council of Heads of Polytechnics and Colleges of 
Technology in Nigeria;
g. Citizenship and Leadership Training Centre (CLTC);
h. Nigerian Employer Consultative Association (NECA);
i. National Council of Women Societies (NCWS);
j. All Nigeria Confederation of Principals of Secondary 
Schools (ANCOPSS);
k. Two Ex-(former)NYSC Directors and;
l. Director, Corps Welfare and Inspectorate Department, 
57
NYSC NDHQ.
Central to the above composition is the principle of objectivity as 
earlier noted, and also quality assurance in the bid to reward 
deserving corps members that have distinguished themselves 
from their peers in all the phases of the NYSC programmes. The 
essence of the honours award is aptly captured by Ibrahim 
Babangida as follows:
Honours awards and ceremonies of this nature have 
become part of our national development process. 
This administration recognises the roles of incentives 
as they serve as rewards for selfless and patriotic 
service. But beyond that, awards and ceremonies of 
57 th   
National Youth Service Corps Year Book, 40 Anniversary… p.299.
LEADERSHIP IN THE GROWTH OF NYSC SINCE 1973 339
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

this nature should be seen as fora to carve role 
models and to expose committed people for other 
58
citizens to emulate.
Since the inception of the President's Honours Award in the 
1973/ 1974 service year, many Nigerian youths have 
distinguished themselves in the selfless and patriotic service to 
the nation and have been rewarded. To avoid the cumbersome 
task of listing the names of the President's award winners, the 
table below may serve to provide an idea regarding the subject.
Table 10: Number of Winners of President's NYSC Honour's Award 
Since 1973/1974 Service Year
58 
G K. Enegwea and G E.Umoden,   NYSC: Twenty Years of National Service.p.193.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020340
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

th 
Source: National Youth Service Corps Year Book, 40 Anniversary 
Commemorative Edition , (Abuja: NYSC National Directorate 
Headquarters, 2013), p.300. National Youth Service Corps Year th 
Book, 45 Anniversary Commemorative Edition , (Abuja: NYSC 
National Directorate Headquarters, 2018), p.297.Office of the 
Director, Corps Welfare and Inspectorate, NDHQ, Abuja.
From the above table it is clear that out of four million, eight 59 
hundred thousand, five hundred and sixty-eight (4,800,568) 
graduates mobilised since 1973 (i.e.1973-2019), one thousand 
three hundred and seventy four (1,374) corps members have 
distinguished themselves. The table further indicates that the 
award figure and chart has continued to maintain an upward 
trajectory, a practical demonstration that mobilisation increases 
competition as the scheme continues to grow. On the whole, the 
award mechanism of the scheme which is designed to give 
incentives to graduates in form of cash, employment and 
scholarship, is a good initiative that should be sustained to bring 
the best out of Nigerian graduates. While we commend the 
reward mechanism of the award, we submit that the 
government should give more attention to it in order to avoid 
delay and backlogs experienced overtime.
ConclusionThe chapter has considered three fundamental 
elements in the leadership contributions of the National Youth 
Service Corps to national development, namely; the Director 
Generals, the staff and the corps members. The chapter clarified 
59 
Office of the Director of Mobilization, NYSC National Directorate Headquarters 
(NDHQ), Yakubu Gowon House, Maitama, Abuja-Nigeria.
LEADERSHIP IN THE GROWTH OF NYSC SINCE 1973 341
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

the notion of leadrship and explained how it has been studied 
over the years. On the basis of this premis the chapter examined 
the activities of some leaders, NYSC Director Generals, staff and 
corps members with the aim of ascertaining their roles in the 
development of the scheme. The chapter isolated General 
Yakubu Gowon and Professor Adebayo Adedeji as the founding 
fathers of the scheme. All the eighteen Director Generals that 
have overseen the affairs of the scheme since inception were x-
rayed. We also sampled some staff whose contributions whose 
contributions significantly impact the scheme. For the corps 
members, only 1, 374 have distinguished themselves out of 
4,800,568 corps members mobilised since 1973. In conclusion, 
the need to reward excellence in service was emphasized in the 
operations of social institutions such as the NYSC scheme.
Bibliographical References
A.  Oral interviews:
Ani, A C, c63 years, Retired NYSC Director; Interviewed at 
st 
Enugu 21 December, 2020.
th 
Akpala, D, c55 years, NYSC Staff; Interviewed at Sokoto on 15
December, 2020.
Anyia, G F, c.56 years, Assistant Director of the NYSC; 
Interviewed at the NYSC Orientation Camp, Keffi-
Nasarawa State, 29th April, 2018 and Re-interviewed in 
th 
Abuja on 17 December, 2020.
th 
Enegwea, G K, c.76 years, Retiree; Interviewed at Abuja, 28
th 
April, 2018 and Re-interviewed on 17 December, 2020.
Funke, A E, c56 years, NYSC Cross River State Coordinator; 
th 
Interviewed at Calabar, 20 September, 2018.
Idoga, A O, c.56 years, Assistant Director of the NYSC; 
Interviewed at the NYSC National Directorate 
th
Headquarters, Abuja. 7 June, 2018 and Re-interviewed on 
th 
18 December, 2020.
Koroma, M, c 47 years, GNYSS Accountant; Interviewed at 
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020342
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Bakau, 27 August, 2018.Kurawa, H O, c.56 years, Director 
General Services of NYSC; Interviewed at the NYSC 
th 
National Directorate Headquarters, Abuja, 8 June, 2018.
Mbye, M, c.50 years, Director of Planning/ and Deputy 
Permanent Secretary Ministry of Youth and Sports; 
th 
Interviewed at The Quadrangle, Banjul, 30 August, 2018.
Odeh, J, c30 years, Ex-corps Member/Lawyer; Interviewed at 
rd
Abuja on 23 December, 2020.
Odeh, L E, c 26years, Ex-Corps member; Interviewed at Abuja on 
st 
21 November, 2020.
Gen. Hafiz Momoh: NYSC Losses former DG” Esoedu Magazine, 
https://esoedumag.com.
B. Archival Material
Kaka, A A, “Minutes of the Meeting on Planned Collaboration 
between the NYSC and the United Nations Volunteers 
(UNV)”, National Directorate Headquarters Yakubu 
th 
Gowon House, Maitama, Abuja.19 August, 1996(NYSC 
Archives, TX/RX NO: 1373).
National Youth Service Corps Report of the Committee to Draft 
Terms of Bilateral Agreement between the National Youth 
Service Corps (NYSC) and Countries Requesting for 
Technical Assistance Submitted to the Director General, 
th 
Brig.Gen. S M. Dule, Fss, Mss, 19 January, 1999. The report 
was a response to Circular NYSC/DG/153/S.9/SEC/ 
dated 08 Dec., 1998(NYSC Archive-Abuja).
C. Official/Private Document
Enegwea, G K, “Appointment of Technical Experts to Help Run 
The Gambia National Youth Service Scheme: Request for a 
Return Ticket and Estacode, for Impending Preliminary 
Assignment in The Gambia”,19 December,1995 (Abuja: 
Gregory Kas Enegwea Personal File).
Imienwarin, P R, for Director General , Press Release : Pioneer 
LEADERSHIP IN THE GROWTH OF NYSC SINCE 1973 343
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSCMember Appointed Administrator of Gambia Youth 
nd 
Service, Ref: NYSC/NDHE/PRD/T.2, 2 February, 1996, 
(Enegwea Personal File and record).
Njie, S, “The Gambia National Youth Service Scheme 
Testimonial of Noble Service”,(Chief Gregory F. Anyia 
Personal File).
Olisa, S A.D, For Hon. Minister of Foreign Affairs, Attention: 
Alhaji
M. Bulama; Re-Request for Technical Exports to Help Run The 
Gambia National Youth Service Scheme , (Directorate of 
Technical Aid Corps, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Abuja), 
th 
Ref. No: TAC/RC/002/V, 7 December, 1995.
Olorunnisomo, J.O, Ozoma A M, and Kobani, B N, “An Interim 
Report of the Committee on Technical Cooperation 
between the Republic of The Gambia and the Federal 
Republic of Nigeria in the Field of National Youth Service 
Scheme”, submitted to the Director General, Colonel 
nd 
Sofoluwe, S A, Mss, Fss, Pscon Tuesday, 22 August, 1995.
Sofoluwe, S A, Circular, 1994 Global Conference on National Youth 
th 
Service, NYSC/DG/153/5.9/Sec/Vol.VI/391, 20 July, 
1994,2. (G K. Enegwea personal files and record).
rd 
Press Release 3 Batch of Nigeria Technical Expert on National Youth 
Service Scheme (NYSS) Arrive The Gambia (Gregory F. Anyia 
Personal File).
The Gambia National Youth Service Annual Report, 2013, Office 
of the Executive Director, The Gambia National Youth 
Service Headquarters, Opposite Friendship Hotel, Bakau, 
The Gambia.
The Gambia National Youth Service Scheme Accelerated 
Apprenticeship Training Programme leaflet”, (Office of 
the Executive Director, GNYSS).
The Gambia National Youth Service Annual Report, 2012, Office 
of the Executive Director, Bakau, The Gambia.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020344
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

D. Books
Agu, U, NYSC and Nigerian Unity: A Critical Appraisal, Enugu: 
AgenePublishers, 1995.
Akume, A T, Micheal, S,. Abu, M O,”Conflict, the NYSC 
Programme and the Question of Policy Relevance in 
Present Day Nigeria: An Assessment” in 50 Years of 
Nigeria's Nationhood: Issues and Challenges for Sustainable 
Development. D.A. Abdulrahman, I. Ogundia, T.Garba, I M. 
Dankani, (eds): A Publication of Faculty of Social Sciences, 
Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto. Ibadan: Crown F. 
Publishers, 2012, Pp.97-117.
Audu, B M, “Brig. Gen. Shauibu Ibrahim and the reinvigoration 
of NYSC” in War, Society and Leadership in Nigeria: Essays in 
Honour of Brigadier General Shaibu Ibrahim, CCC. Osakwe, O 
E. Tangban, A O. Ahmed and LO. Udeagbala (eds), 
Kaduna: Nigerian Defence Academy Press, 2020, pp.3-18.
Enegwea, G K, and Umoden, G NYSC: Twenty Years of National 
Service, Lagos: Gabumo Publishing, 1993.
Enegwea, G K, “NYSC: An Enduring Legacy” in H.I. Ajaegbu, H 
I, Mathew-Daniel B J S T, and Uya O E, (eds,) Nigeria : A 
People United, A Future Assured, A Compendium, Calabar: 
Published for Federal Ministry of Information by Gabmo 
Publishers, 2000), pp.341-348.
Gundu, Z A, and Igirgi, A D, “Oral Traditions in the Middle 
Benue Valley: Some Archeological Perspectives” in 
Imprints of West Africa's Past, B W.Andah, C A. Folorunso 
and I A. Okpoko (eds), Ibadan: Wisdom Publishers, 1993, 
PP.85-96.
Hagher, I., Leadership and Governance: A Christian Perspective (Jos: 
The Leadership Institute, 2002)
Ikoni, U. D., Nigeria: In Search of Credible Leadership: A Reflection on 
50 Years of Nigeria as an Independent Nation (Makurdi: 
Bookmakers Publishing, 2010).
Obasi, P K, NYSC: A Nation attempt at Mobilizing the Youths, 
LEADERSHIP IN THE GROWTH OF NYSC SINCE 1973 345
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Ilorin: Publishing Division of Consultant and Marketers, 
1995.
Odeh, G O, “Demilitarizing and Democratizing the 
Appointmentof NYSC Director General: Forging Civil- 
Military Relations” in War, Society and Leadership in Nigeria: 
Essays in Honour of Brigadier General Shaibu Ibrahim , CCC. 
Osakwe, O E. Tangban, A O. Ahmed and LO. Udeagbala 
(eds), Kaduna: Nigerian Defence Academy Press, 2020, 
pp.19-34.
Odeh, G O, “Politics of Appointment of Vice Chancellor in 
Nigerian States Universities: The Experience of Professor 
Nuhu O. Yaqub, OFR, 2012-2017” in History, Globalization 
& Relations in Africa: Festschrift in Honour of Okpeh O. Okpeh, 
Jnr, Ukase, P I, Ugbegili, S I, Audu, B. J., Ikpanor E T, (eds,), 
Lagos: Integrity Publishers, 2018, pp.766-780.
Olusoji, A. E., The Making of a Leader: Exploring the Skills of Effective 
Leadership (Lagos: Leadership Publishing House, 2002)
th 
National Youth Service Corps Year Book, 45 Anniversary 
Commemorative Edition , (Abuja: NYSC National 
Directorate Headquarters, 2018).
th 
National Youth Service Corps Year Book, 40 Anniversary 
Commemorative Edition , (Abuja: NYSC National 
Directorate Headquarters, 2013),
NYSC Sokoto State Batch “B” Orientation Programme and Service 
th th 
Guide, Thursday 24 November-Wednesday 14 December 
2016.
th 
NYSC Year Book: 25 Anniversary, 1973-1998 ,(Abuja: Publication 
of NYSC National DirectorateHeadquarters,1998).
Odeh, G. O., The National Youth Service Scheme and the Challenge of 
Nation Building in Nigeria (1973-2008) , Abuja: Olowu 
Publishers, 2009.
Okpeh, O. O. and Due, A. B. (eds.) Leadership and Good Governance 
in Modern Africa, Vol. 1 (Ibadan: NuStreams Conference 
Centre, 2015).
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020346
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Okpeh, O. O., “The Concept and Philosophy of ASUU 
Leadership Model and its Relevance to Contemporary 
Socio-Political Realities”, in O. O. Okpeh, Jr., B. Audu and 
S. Ibrahim (eds.), Trade Unionism, Leadership and 
Development in Africa (Kaduna: Nigerian Defense 
Academy Press, 2020), 1-15.Uchendu, E., and Okpoko, P. 
U., et al (eds.), Perspectives on Leadership in Africa (Nsukka, 
Nigeria: Afro-Orbis Publications, Ltd, 2010).
E. Address/ Conference Papers
Abacha, S., Address By the Head of State, Commander-In-Chief 
of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria at 
the opening ceremony of the second Global Conference on 
National Youth Service, held in Abuja on Tuesday,11, 
October, 1994..
Gowon, Y., “Linking Youth Services with Global 
Understanding”: Keynote Speech Delivered at the 
nd 
Opening ceremony of the 2 Global Conference on 
th 
National Youth Service, Abuja, 11 October, 1994.
Odeh, G. O., The Gambia's NYSS Partnership with the International 
Organization for Migration (IOM): Lessons for Nigeria's 
NYSC Scheme in the Twenty first Century. A paper presented 
at the conference organized by the University of Texas at 
Austin, the Pan African University Press and the Chronicle 
on the theme Sweat is Invisible in the Rain: A Conference on 
Culture, Politics and Contemporary Issues in The Gambia held 
at Paradise Suite Hotel, 3 Paradise Beach Place, off Bertil 
th th 
Harding Highway (Kololi), Banjul, The Gambia 14 -15
December, 2019.
Sanda, A. O., Youth Service and World Peace. A Paper presented at 
the Second Global Conference of National Youth Service, 
NICON-NOGA Hilton Hotel, Abuja, October,10-14,1994.
Sofoluwe, S. A., National Youth Service Corps: Challenges and 
Prospects. A paper presented at the Two-Week Orientation 
LEADERSHIP IN THE GROWTH OF NYSC SINCE 1973 347
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

th 
Course for the 5 Batch of the Technical Aid Corps 
Volunteers at the Cultural Centre, Calabar, Cross River 
State, Monday, October 3, 1994.
Williams, D., An Outline History of African Art” in Africa in the 
Nineteenth and Twentieth Centuries , Anene, J. and Brown, 
G.(eds,), Ibadan: Ibadan University Press and Nelson, 
1966, pp.57-74
Watt, N, Conference Communiqué –Towards Global Youth 
Service1994, (NYSC Archive, National Directorate 
Headquarters, Abuja: GC/94/ 21).
F. Dissertation , Theses and Unpublished Manuscript
Odeh, G. O., Nigeria NYSC''s Role in the Founding of The Gambia 
National Youth Service, 1996-2004. A PhD Dissertation, 
Department of History and International In studies, 
Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka,2019.
Odeh, G. O., Issues in Dressing Code for NYSC Female Corps 
Member, (Unpublished), Department of History, Sokoto 
State University, Sokoto, 2019.
Odeh, G. O., A Historical Survey of NYSC Community Development 
Scheme in Abuja, Federal Capital Territory, 1983 – 2010. M.A. 
Dissertation, Department of History, Benue State 
University, Makurdi, 2013.
Odeh, G. O., NYSC Scheme and the task of Nation Building in 
Nigeria: Abuja Experience, 1983-2010 . First Draft of M A. 
Dissertation, Department of History Benue State 
University, Makurdi, 2012.
G. Journal
Lawal, A A, “Interdisciplinary Approach to Historical Research 
and Writing: Theoretical and Practical Problems” in 
Journal of Historical Society of Nigeria, Special Edition, Vol.1, 
No.1, 2004, pp.13-19.
Odeh, G. O., “NYSC's Engagement in the Development of Abuja, 
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020348
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

1982-2011", in Rima International Journal of Historical Studies: 
A publication of the Department of History, Faculty of Arts 
and Social Sciences, Sokoto State University, Sokoto, (1)2, 
2018, p.141-161.
H. Internet Source
Adedigba, A., “Ex-NYSC Yusuf Bomoi is dead” in Premium 
Times, 
Ahmad, R. W., “Reminiscences with Colonel Kolawole Obasa”
Daily Trust, https://dailytrust.com
Akinola, A., “Nigeria: Reps member caught fake NYSC 
documents”, All Africa, https://allafrica.com.
Awolowo, O., “NYSC DG Removal: Good Radiance to bad 
Rubbish”, The Nigerian Voice, www. thenigerianvoice.com.
Lalla. N., The Chicago School of Media Theory , https:// 
lucian.uchicago.edu. Iconography definition, 
Makori, E. K., General Yakubu Gowon bio: age, education, family and 
achievements, legit.ng-delivered by google.
Oba, J., “Adieu, Bomoi, NYSC Programmatic DG”, Blue Print, 
https://www.blueprint.ng.
Onochie, M., “Looking at Reforms in NYSC under Tsiga” in 
Daily Trust, https://dailytrust.com.
Stroud, A., National Youth Service, Employability, Entrepreneurship 
and Sustainable Livelihoods: Overview of the National Youth 
Service Landscape in Sub-Saharan Africa .(2013),Accessed 
t h
October 15 , 2017. http//.www.icicp-org/wp-
content/uploads/2014/04>3.
“Change of Guard at NYSC”, ThisDay,Thisdaylive.com.
“New NYSC boss assumes office, promises fairness, equity” in
Daily Post, dailypost.ng.
“Profile: Shuaibu Ibrahim, decorated Brigadier general, head 
N Y S C ”  P r e m i u m  T i m e s ,  
https://www.premiumtimesng,com.
LEADERSHIP IN THE GROWTH OF NYSC SINCE 1973 349
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

A Chronicle of NYSC Leadership, Angel Fire. National Youth Service 
Corps-NYSC, https://m.facebook.com.
About DG-NYSC, www.nysc.gov.ng>aboutdg.
Nigeria, NYSC: will a former corps member make a difference”?
,All Africa, https://allafrica.com
The History  and Symbolism of Iconography , https:// 
www.monasle.com.
Yakubu Gowon head state of Nigeria, Britannica, https:// 
www.britannica.co
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020350
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Chapter Twelve
TRENDS IN NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE 
CORPS UNIFORM, 1973-2020
Zara Emmanuel Kwaghe
Department of History & International Studies 
Federal University, Lafia
Introduction
Uniforms are essential part of mankind and are widely worn in 
our society for the purpose of identification by different 
categories of people. The history of uniform is both interesting 
and diverse. In Nigeria, uniforms are worn every day by school 
children distinguishing them from pupils/students of other 
schools; different security agencies such as the Nigerian Police, 
the Nigerian Military, the Nigeria Customs Services, Nigeria 
Immigrations; medical personnel, paramilitary, private security 
personnel, firefighters, club members, sports men and women, 
personnel of some corporate organisations and many others. 
Besides distinction from the rest of the population, uniform 
promotes a sameness of appearance and homogeneity to an 1 
otherwise heterogeneous group of people. However, despite its 
importance and daily usage, few works on uniform exists; 2 
(Craik, Cole, Pfanner and Stephenson) but many have been 
written on fashion and clothing. Authors peripherally mention 
uniforms when writing on institutions, organisations or 
companies that use uniforms. Perhaps the reason for this lack of 
serious documentation on uniforms is because most people are 
1 
Toni Pfanner, “Military uniforms and the Law of War” International Review of Red Cross 
IRRC
March 2004, Vol.86, No.853, 93.2 
Craik Jennifer, Uniform Exposed: From Conformity to Transgression (Berg Publishers, 
2005); Toni Pfanner “Military uniforms and the Law of War” International Review of Red 
Cross IRRC March 2004, Vol.86, No.853; Stephenson, Kate. “A History of British Uniform”, 
PhD Thesis, University of York, January 2016.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

used to seeing them being worn every day that they could 
describe them off head without much ado. Be that as it may, 
uniforms are integral part of the corporate image of institutions 
that use them. It reflects not only the history of a group, 
institution/organisation, but also the institutional values and 3 
fosters cooperative image and national pride. It speaks volume 
to both wearers and non-wearers. It inspires fear, conformity, 
subversion, discipline, order, love, danger, merriment, social 
class, etcetera. Such communication clandestinely or overtly 
affects the way wearers act and how non-wearers respond. As 
aptly put by Sterman, 'communication of the message of clothing 
has a very strong societal, social, economic and political 4 
influence'. It is therefore pertinent for authors not to mention it 5 
peripherally or as the subject of a narrow focus. This chapter 
focuses on NYSC uniform: its origin, fabrics, design, nuances, 
importance and current trend. The discourse is hinged on 
understanding and interpreting the rationale behind the choice 
of uniform and the changes that have challenged the existence of 
the uniform overtime. Even though there is abundance of 
literature on the evolution, achievements, challenges and 
prospects of National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), very 
minimal attention has been devoted to the history and trend of 
NYSC uniform. This chapter, therefore, seeks to address this 
historiographical gap. The study relies mainly on primary data 
derived from oral interviews and questionnaires distributed to 
corps members, ex-corps members in different parts of the 
country and NYSC staff in Plateau State NYSC Secretariat and 
the NYSC National Directorate Headquarters, Abuja. Besides 
the primary data, secondary sources on uniform and NYSC were 
also utilised. 
3 
Sonja Sterman, “The Protective Role of Uniforms and their Communication Power in 
Society”, TEDI- International Interdisciplinary Journal of Young Scientists from the Faculty of 
Textile Technology Vol.1 (2011), 9.4 
Sonja Sterman, “The Protective Role of Uniforms and their Communication Power in 
Society”, 9.5
Ibid; 9.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020352
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Concept and Evolution of Uniform
The concept of 'uniform' is derived from a combination of two 
Latin words, uni (one) and forma (form) which means 'one form' 
6
or 'having only one form or shape' . It is defined as a special set of 
clothes with a particular design, colour and insignia that are 
worn by all members of an organisation or a group at work, or by 
7 
school children at school, military, police, nurses etcetera. The 
concept of uniform depicts two major things: unity and 
togetherness. Evidence of the use of uniform especially among 
Mesopotamia soldiers dates back to about five thousand years 
8 
ago. Due to the dominance of warfare in the life of Sumerians in 
the third Millennium BC, soldiers wore cloaks, fringed kilts and 
9 
metal helmets as uniforms during war. Many of these soldiers 
were volunteers or militia armies. A more centralised army 
began to surface with the emergence of the Roman Empire. At 
the time of Emperor Augustus, the Roman army numbered 
more than half a million men. They were professional soldiers 
wearing clothing and equipment clearly identifying them as 
10 
belonging to it. Also, soldiers made extensive use of heraldic 
signs and symbols for identification in the Middle Ages, the 
period of the Crusaders and the Renaissance. However, with the 
establishment of large armies in Europe after the Peace of 
Westphalia and the development in military equipment in the 
sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, the need for distinctive 
11 
uniform on the battlefield spread throughout Europe. By the 
end of the seventeenth century, the concept of military uniform 
became acceptable in all European armies. It suffices to mention 
that through colonialism, the traditions of European armies 
influenced the military history of the United States and other 
6
www.etymonline.com/word/uniform. Accessed November 27, 2020.7
www.lexico.com/definition/uniform; Toni Pfanner, “Military uniforms and the Law of 
War”…,95.8 
Toni Pfanner, “Military uniforms and the Law of War” …, 95.9 
Ibid; 95.10   
Ibid; 98.11   
Ibid; 98.12 
“History of U.S Army Uniform” https://www.military.com/army/uniforms.html. 
Accessed September 20,2020.
TRENDS IN NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS UNIFORM, 1973-2020 353
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

12 
nations of the world especially Africa. Today, despite different 
geographical environments, the similarities in military 
uniforms, accessories and insignia are easily recognisable. 
The use of uniforms in Europe was not peculiar to the 
military. It was also a common feature in the educational sector. 
13 
The first recorded use of school uniforms is in England in 1222.
Students wore a robe like-outfit known as cappa clausa -
introduced by the Archbishop of Canterbury. The 1307-1308 
account of Westminster School also recorded that pupils were 
14 
provided with gowns in school. Same was also said of 
Winchester in the school statutes. As observed by Stephenson;
Over time such garments transformed into the gowns 
worn by academics today, which preserve some of the 
length and style but became open at the front and 
developed more decorative sleeves from the late 
15
fifteenth century onwards.
It was only in the sixteenth century that students began to wear 
modern uniforms at a larger scale. By the eighteenth century, it 
became a way of life in Britain and in other countries of the 
16 
world. The gowns were replaced by the blue jacket. Blue and 
yellow was used for designing uniforms because they were the 
cheapest dyes at that time. The oldest school uniform still in use 
17 
today in Britain is that of Christ Hospital School in Sussex. The 
18 
uniform has remained unchanged for over 460 years. In the 
United States, the use of school uniforms began in the early 
nineteenth century for the parochial and private schools. By the 
1980s, it was introduced in public schools. France introduced 
13 
Meleen Michele “History of School Uniforms”https://kids.lovetoknow.com/wiki/ 
History_of_School_Uniforms14 
Stephenson, Kate. “A History of British Uniform” …, 24.15 
Ibid. 25.1 6  
P a n d e y  K r i s h n a  B a b u  “ W h o  a n d  W h y  I n v e n t e d  t h e  
Uniform?”https://www.listsworld.com/ who-and-why-invented-the-school-uniform.1 7
" T h e  H i s t o r y  o f  C o r p o r a t e  U n i f o r m s ”  
https://www.wiseworksafe.com/blog/view/the- history-of-corporate-uniforms.18 
Ibid.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020354
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

19 
school uniform only between 1927 - 1968 and Poland 1988. In 
1834, Russia under Tsar Nicolas 1(1796-1855) first introduced a 
female court uniform called a “Frenchified sarafan” to be worn 
20 
by women at the court. The dress continued to exist at the 
21 
Russian court without modification until 1917.
Workplace uniforms started appearing in Europe between 
22
the 1500s and 1800s . Court servants were given gowns bearing 
the colours, forms and decorations of the house the servant 
belonged to. The uniforms signified the rank and distinction of 
the wearer as well as the social ranks, ambitions and financial 
status of the master. The uniform also bore the coat of arms of the 
household in the style of a badge. Badges very quickly became a 
form of, or addition to, uniform as it gave clear indication of 
23 
status, affiliation or occupation. As industrial revolution gave 
rise to industries and corporate organisations, the use of 
uniforms moved from the courts to industries and corporate 
organisations mainly to distinguish employees from the rest of 
the people. The 1880s saw the first Thomas Cook staff also 
known as Interpreters, wearing 'long dark blue coats with 
peaked black hats while working in train stations across the 
24 
United Kingdom, Europe, Alexandria, Beirut and New York. It 
was the European colonisation of most parts of the world such as 
the Americas, Asia and Africa the advanced the spread of the use 
of uniform in the schools, security and medical sectors, etcetera.
In Africa for example, the history of modern uniform was traced
to the imposition of European colonial rule. European colonial 
powers directly enforced her culture on the Africans. One of the 
European cultures imposed on Africans was the European 
styled uniform, which was adopted in schools, security and 
19
Pandey Krishna Babu “Who and Why Invented the Uniform?”20 
Raisa Kirsanova “Russia: History of Dress” https://fashion-history.lovetoknow.com/ 
clothing-around-the -world/russia-history-dress.21 
Ibid.2 2  
“ T h e  H i s t o r y  o f  C o r p o r a t e  U n i f o r m s ”  
https://www.wiseworksafe.com/blog/view/the- history-of-corporate-uniforms.23   
Ibid.24   
Ibid.
 
TRENDS IN NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS UNIFORM, 1973-2020 355
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

medical services. More so, the introduction of western education 
by European Christian missionaries facilitated the adoption of 
school uniform. School uniforms were used to differentiate 
children at the missionary schools from the ones at home. Its use 
in schools was prevalent during the colonial and continued since 
the attainment of independence. Today, the use of school 
uniforms is more prevalent in Africa than anywhere else in the 
25 
world. The same could be said of uniforms used by the armed 
forces, emergency service organisations (police, firefighters), 
prisons and medical personnel etcetera. They were all 
introduced to Africa by Europeans during colonialism.
Importance of Uniforms
The importance of uniform goes beyond identification, creation 
of similarities, covering the body from harsh weather, accident 
and other negative occurrences. Uniform ensures that a 
company's branding is etched on the customer's mind. It 
advertises the company and helps the customer remember the 
company. It also builds trust between the company and the 
customer. Uniform fosters a sense of pride, unity and solidarity 
among members. This helps to create an atmosphere where team 
work is encouraged and performance is increased. Uniform 
distinguishes members of certain organisation from the rest of 
the public. Uniform communicates power, economic status and 
what kind of services to expect from the wearers - for example, 
26 
soldiers, police officers, nurses' and lawyers' uniforms. In the 
military for instance, uniform is worn for identification, pride, 
27 
creating bonds and an esprit de corps. Soldiers are obliged to 
wear their uniform with a sense of discipline, pride and order. 
25 
MeleenMichele “History of School Uniforms”26
Sonja Sterman, “The Protective Role of Uniforms and their Communication Power in 
Society”, 12.27 
Toni Pfanner, “Military uniforms and the Law of War” … 99.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020356
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

…discipline is judged in part, by the manner in which a 
soldier wears a prescribed uniform, as well as the 
individual's appearance. Therefore, a neat and well- 
groomed appearance by all soldiers is fundamental to 
the army and contributes to building the pride and 
28
esprit essential to an effective military force.
Wearing uniform in any other way other than the prescribed 
manner attracts punishment or fine as the case may be. Most 
organisations/ institutions that wear uniform have regulations 
on uniform policy and unlawful wearing of the uniform by 
members and non- members could attract penal laws. A soldier 
as posited by Pfanner for example, could be punished for 
unlawful wearing of a specific military uniform. 'Military 
regulations usually prescribed the appearance of uniforms and 
insignia and how they are to be properly worn by officers and 
29 
enlisted personnel of the armed forces'. It is equally wrong for 
civilians to wear military uniform of any kind. In fact, the 
Nigeria Criminal Code Act Section 110 and 111 states the 
following;
110.  Unlawfully wearing the uniform of the armed 
forces
Any person who
[L.N. 112 of 1964. 1967 No. 27.]
(1) not being a person serving in any of the armed forces 
of Nigeria, wears the uniform or any part of the uniform 
of such forces, or any dress having the appearance or 
bearing any of the regimental or other distinctive marks 
of such uniforms; or
(2) not being a person holding any office or authority 
under the Government of Nigeria or of any part thereof, 
wears any uniform or distinctive badge or mark or 
carries any token calculated to convey the impression 
28 
Ibid. 99.29 
Nigerian Criminal Code Act. Chapter 12.
TRENDS IN NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS UNIFORM, 1973-2020 357
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

that such person holds any office or authority under the 
government, is guilty of an offence and is liable to 
imprisonment for one month or to a fine of ten naira, 
unless he proves that he had the permission of the 
President or of the Governor of a State to wear such 
uniform or dress, badge or mark or to carry such token: 
Provided that this section of this Code shall not apply to 
the wearing of any uniform or dress in the course of a 
stage play or in any bona fide public entertainment.
110.  Selling, etc., uniform, etc., to unauthorised 
persons Any person who sells or gives any uniform, or 
part of a uniform, or any dress, badge or mark, as in 
section 110 of this Code to any person who is not 
authorised to wear the same, is guilty of an offence and 
30
is liable to the penalties prescribed in the said section.
History of NYSC and the Choice of Uniform
The National Youth Service Corps was established by the military 
government of General Yakubu Gowon in 1973 as a post-civil war 
interventionist agency. It is a one year compulsory programme for 
Nigerian youths, designed to promote the cause of national unity 
and speed up the healing processes of Nigeria after the thirty- 
month civil war. The objectives of the Scheme include among 
others: inculcation of discipline in Nigerian youths by instilling in 
them a tradition of industry at work and of patriotic and loyal 
service to the nation in any situation they find themselves; to 
develop in the Nigerian youths, attitude of mind acquired through 
shared experience and suitable training which will make them 
31
more amenable to mobilisation in the national interest.
The Scheme has four cardinal programmes designed to 
equipthe youths with strength, knowledge, skill and 
comradeship. The programmes are Orientation Course, a  three-
week course comprising physical training, intellectual 
30
Nigeria Criminal Code Act, Chapter 1231 th   
National Youth Service Corps Yearbook 45 Anniversary Commemorative Edition, 2018.20
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020358
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

activities, sports and social event in a regimented environment; 
Primary Assignment which gives the Corps members the 
opportunity to contribute to national development, Community 
Development Service - a package of activities initiated by Corps 
members to address felt needs of their host communities and 
Winding up/Passing –out Programme - the final phase of the 
service year during which Corps members are reassembled to 
32
exchange ideas and reappraise the Scheme.
As the founding fathers designed the above programmes, 
they were also not oblivious of the fact that such programmes 
would not only exert a lot of energy from Corps members but 
would also be rigorous; thus the need to fashion out a suitable 
uniform that would withstand the pressure of the different 
programmes and at the same time give them an identity. Bearing 
in mind the para- military component of the Orientation Course 
and the principal objectives of the Scheme which is “… to 
emphasise the spirit of oneness and brotherhood of all Nigerians 
irrespective of cultural, social backgrounds and to promote 
33
national unity and development” , the founding fathers 
especially Professor Adebayo Adedeji and the pioneer director, 
Colonel (Dr.) Ahmadu A. Ali opted for a military-style uniform 
to enable Corps members participate freely in the programmes 
and to also avoid coming to camp with different kinds of outfit 
thereby giving room for the promotion of affluence and other 
34
whims rather than national unity.
Moreover, since the uniforms were meant to be worn 
throughout the one-year service period, extra care was taken to 
get fabrics that have properties to withstand daily wears in 
various weather conditions and to take care of emergency 
35 
situations. Based on the above, the founding fathers decided to 
32 th 
National Youth Service Corps Yearbook 45 Anniversary Commemorative Edition, 24.33
Samuel O. Asein. Call to Serve: Twenty Years of the National Youth Service Corps Scheme 
1973- 1993(Ibadan: Sam Bookman Educational and Communication Services, 1993), 23.34 
Ibid35 
Sonja Sterman, “The Protective Role of Uniforms and their Communication Power in 
Society”, 10.
TRENDS IN NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS UNIFORM, 1973-2020 359
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

go for the carton colour (brown) khaki fabric, white soft vest and 
jungle boots which could resist wear and tear. Khaki (means 
dust-coloured) fabric is a special fabric that originated from 
36 
India in the middle of the nineteenth century. Khaki is generally 
made from cotton, however, there are still some that are made 
from synthetic fibers combined with cotton. It was originally 
used for military clothing because of its relatively light 
characteristics which is suitable for fighting or marching. Its 
brown colour makes it easy for soldiers to conceal themselves 
37 
without fear of being detected in war front. The khaki fabric is 
suitable for all ages, men and women, environment and weather 
38 
condition. It was its suitability that contributed to it being 
chosen for NYSC uniform.
The NYSC Uniform
The NYSC uniform which is also referred to as kits include the 
following: khaki trousers and shirt; crested vest; white vest; a 
pair of white shorts; a pair of zebra-striped socks; a pair of jungle 
boots; a pair of canvas; belt and face cap. The complete uniform is 
also called seven-over-seven (7/7). The garment factories in 
Minna and Calabar are responsible for producing the uniforms. 
As posited earlier, the texture of the uniform was chosen because 
of their suitability for the kind of programmes drawn for Corps 
members. The paramilitary component of the Orientation 
Course involves military drills and parades, physical education 
activities, Man O'War type leadership and citizenship 
39 
training… The uniform enables Corps members to comfortably 
participate in the military drills, parades and physical education 
with ease. The khaki trouser is sewn with four large pockets on 
the back and either sides of the trouser while the shirt is long 
36 
“The concept of Khaki fabric? And their salient features in the uniform industry” 
http:// vinatexvsc.com/news/textile-new/the-concept-of-khaki-fabric-and-their-
salient-features-in- the-uniform-industry-803.html37 
Ibid.38    
Ibid.39 
Gregory Enegwea and Gabriel Umoden (eds) NYSC: Twenty Years of National Service 
(Lagos: Gabumo Publishing Company, 1993), 54.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020360
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

sleeved with front buttons, two front pockets and shoulder 
straps. The initial colour of the khaki fabric used was carton 
brown but in recent times it has changed to different shades of 
40
brown and now green .
Even though the colour of the fabric has been changing 
overtime, the style and design of the uniform still remains the 
same (see Fig. 1). The white crested vest is a round neck T-shirt 
with two green stripes on the neck and on each of the short 
sleeves (unlike the first generation NYSC crested vest which had 
collar) (see Fig 2 and 2.1). The acronym NYSC is boldly written 
on the T-shirt with the crest embossed below. The crest is the 
emblem of the Scheme (see Fig.3). It is made up of three 
dominant objective symbols: “the national flag enclosed within 
the outline, in black, of the map of Nigeria with a torch standing 
in the background. Two enclosing concentric circles define the 
margin of the crest with the corps motto “Service and Humility” 
imprinted in black against the golden band in the lower section 
41
and the full corps scheme name in bold caps in the upper arc”.
The symbols on the emblem are surely not without meaning. 
The gold within the concentric circles represents cheerfulness, 
while the black of the circles and of the torch stands for 
'dedication' and 'discipline'. The torch symbolises leadership 
roles and finally, the white background and the map of Nigeria, 
42
stands for 'peace and unity' which is Nigeria's motto.
40
Interview with Mrs. Ruth Bakka, Director Procurement at the NYSC Headquarters, 
Garki Abuja on August 10,2020.41 
Ibid. 24.42
Ibid. 24.
TRENDS IN NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS UNIFORM, 1973-2020 361
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Fig. 15.1: Serving Corps Member 
in NYSC Khak Uniform Circa 
Fig. 15.2: Serving Corps Member 
in NYSC Crested Vest Circa 2020
Source: Field Work, September 8, 2020. Source: Field Work, September 8, 2020.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020362
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Fig. 15: Corps members in NYSC crested vest circa 1990 (Note the 
deep green colour as opposed to the one above)
Source: Authors Archives, 2020
TRENDS IN NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS UNIFORM, 1973-2020 363
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC face cap is one of the seven uniforms used by Corps 
members. The style of the cap has also changed overtime. The 
very first NYSC face cap was made of net-like  fabric with the 
NYSC crest embossed on its top, but it is now made with khaki 
fabric to perhaps suit the khaki trouser and shirt. Wearing of the 
face cap is compulsory and is not to be worn facing backwards. 
The only official time the NYSC face cap can be worn facing 
backwards is during Man-O-War parade. The top of the face cap 
has the flag of NYSC sewn on it instead of only the crest as it used 
to be. The flag is another NYSC accoutrements. The flag is a “two 
diagonal green stripes superimposed on a cream background 
colour against which the NYSC crest is mounted”. The cream 
background colour symbolises 'Youth and Service', green 
colour- 'growth and agriculture' and the white colour stands for 
43
'peace and unity'.
Fig. 16.1: NYSC Crest Fig. 16.2: NYSC Face Cap
Source: 
https://www.pmnewsnigeria.co
m/2019/05/21/.           
Accessed, July 23, 2020
43 
Ibid. 24.
Source: Field Work, September 
8, 2020.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020364
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Source: https://www.nairaland.com/2698283/what-nysc-cap- 
looked-like.
Accessed July 23, 2020
Fig. 17: First NYSC Face Cap
TRENDS IN NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS UNIFORM, 1973-2020 365
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Fig. 18: NYSC Jungle Boot
Source: http://www.pointblanknews.com/artopn1971.html
Accessed July 23, 2020
The jungle boot is one of the iconic symbols of NYSC. It is 
designed like military boot to match the khaki uniform and to 
withstand both wear and tear and the harsh Nigerian weather. 
Its top is made of brown khaki and the sole is made of durable 
rubber. Corps members are expected to wear it for parade, Man' 
O'War, Community Development Services (CDS), Endurance 
Trek and any other NYSC function. The NYSC belt is one of the 
accessories needed to complement the NYSC khaki trouser and 
shirt. It is used to hold up the trousers and add beauty to the 
uniform. Just like the other uniforms, the belt has also changed 
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020366
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

with time. Theprevious belt was made from khaki fabric with 
round buckle and 'NYSC' inscribed on the surface of the buckle; 
while the present one is green in colour with flat buckle. 
Fig .19: NYSC Belt
Source: Field Work, 2020.
Where and How to wear the NYSC Uniform
NYSC has rules and regulations governing the use of uniforms 
by Corps members and unauthorised members of the society. 
The National Youth Service Corps Act, Chapter 84 section 14 
entitled “Illegal wearing of service corps uniform” states as 
follows:
Any person who, not being a person serving in the 
service corps or duly authorised so to do, wears the 
uniform or any part of the uniform of the service corpsis 
TRENDS IN NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS UNIFORM, 1973-2020 367
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of 
N1,000 or to imprisonment for a term of six months or to 
44
both such fine and imprisonment.
The above law clearly condemns the wearing of the uniform or 
any part of it by non-Corps members. Just as the law frowns at 
illegal wearing of service corps uniform, NYSC Dress Code rules 
frowns at Corps members wearing any other uniform for NYSC 
activities other than the approved uniforms. The NYSC Dress 
Code states where and how to wear the uniform in the following 
terms;
The approved NYSC dress code for all activities are as follows:
(i) Orientation Camp
The orientation camp is where most NYSC activities take place 
and all Corps members are expected to dress in a particular 
manner depending the occasion. Violation of dress code could 
lead to sanctioning. The regular approved camp wear is white 
short, white round neck T–shirt, white socks and white canvas. It 
is worn to everywhere – parade, drills, kitchen, seminar, camp 
market etcetera. Immediately after registration, corps members 
are to put away their mufti and put on the approved dress for 
staying in the camp. They are also required to put on their NYSC 
state tag at all times. The NYSC face cap is to be worn along with 
the white short and shirt. It is to be worn facing front and not 
backwards. Waist pouch is allowed for keeping of phones and 
other valuables but not supplied by NYSC.    
44
The National Youth Service Corp Act, Chapter 8445     
https://nyscinfo.com/nysc-dress-code-for-all-activities-camp-ppa-cds-pop/
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020368
a. No Corps member is allowed to shape his/her khaki to slim
fit, crop tops, or three-quarter shorts.
b. The hijab isn't part of the kits given to Corps members by the
NYSC.
c. The  use  of  skirts/or  gowns  by  Corps  members  during 
camping is not acceptable.45
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Fig. 20: Regular Camp Uniform
Source: https://theglittersonline.com.ng/corps/
Accessed July 23,2020
(ii) Swearing-in-Ceremony
The dress code for swearing in ceremony is the NYSC 
ceremonial outfit which is popularly known as six-over-seven 
(6/7). For this purpose, Corps members are to put on six out of 
the seven items given to them – NYSC face cap, crested vest, 
NYSC belt, khaki trouser, NYSC zebra-striped socks and jungle 
boot. The seventh wear which is the khaki shirt is not needed. 
The crested vest must be tuck-in at all times and the base of the 
khaki trouser tuck into the socks and if possible padded. 
Swearing-in-ceremony marks the formal commencement of the 
Orientation Course. It involves the administration of the oath of 
allegiance to participants and their declaration of the National 
46
Pledge.
46 
Gregory Enegwea and Gabriel Umoden (eds) NYSC: Twenty Years of National Service, 
54
TRENDS IN NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS UNIFORM, 1973-2020 369
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Fig. 21: NYSC Swearing- in-Ceremony
Source: https://thenationonlineng.net/nysc-swearing-in- ceremony/
Accessed July 23,2020
(iii)   Man- O-War Parade
The uniform for Man-O-war parade is – seven-over-seven (7/7) 
that is the complete uniform. It is the only official time NYSC cap 
is allowed to be turned backwards. Apart from Man-O-War 
parade, the complete uniform is also worn during endurance 
trek. Complete uniform is used because of the paramilitary drills 
and Man-O-War training involved. The complete allows free 
movement for Corps members during training.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020370
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Fig. 22: Man- O- War activities at Benue State Orientation Camp, 2016 
Batch B.
Source: NYSC HQ Nigeria https://twitter.com/nysc_ng/status/ 
829323435495059458.
Accessed July 23, 2020
(iv) Passing out of camp Day/Winding-up and Passing out 
Parade (POP)
The dress code for Winding-up and Passing out parade is the 
same as that of the swearing-in- ceremony, that is 6/7- khaki 
trouser, crested vest, belt, zebra-striped socks, face cap and 
jungle boots.
TRENDS IN NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS UNIFORM, 1973-2020 371
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Fig. 22.1:  Passing out parade at Ilorin Kwara State circa. 1990 (Note the 
colour difference with the current khaki uniform below).
Source: Author's archives.
Fig. 22.2: Passing out parade
Source: https://guardian.ng/features/nysc-expelled-graduates- 
and-dress-code-controversy/
Accessed July 23,2020
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020372
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

(v) Community Development Service (CDS)
The CDS is an important NYSC official activity. It is held once a 
week and it is expected that Corps members appear in their 6/7- 
khaki trouser and shirt, crested vest or white T-shirt, belt, face 
cap and jungle boots. Slippers, cover shoes, skirts etcetera are not 
allowed. Any Corps member found violating the CDS dress 
code would not be allowed to participate in the activities. 
Sometimes, they are sent back home to go and change. Failure to 
comply may lead to punishment such as not being cleared for the 
monthly allowance.
Significance of NYSC Uniform and Its influence on Corps 
Members and the Public
The NYSC uniform as remarked by the Director General, Brig. 
Gen. S. Ibrahim is a mark of identity, honour, solidarity and 
47 
pride of the Scheme. Many Nigerian graduates look forward to 
wearing the uniform to serve their fatherland. In fact, mere 
wearing of the uniform suggests to the public that the wearer is a 
graduate of a university or polytechnic. This confers prestige to 
48 
Corps members especially in the eyes of the public. The 
uniform has played important role in shaping the opinion of the 
public about Corps members. First, the public see them as 
government representatives and for that reason treat them with 
respect. They are also seen as agents of development because 
through the Community Development Services, communities 
49
benefit from Corps members' projects.
The uniform also makes the general public to readily accept
Corps members into their host communities. The sensitisation 
programmes conducted by the Scheme before the deployment of 
47 th 
Selected Speeches and Strides of the 18 NYSC Director –General, Brig. Gen S. Ibrahim (Abuja: 
The Special Duties Department, NYSC National Directorate Headquarters, 2020), 221.48
Interview held with Ginika Okoroafor Ex- Corps Member 2012/2013 on July 21,2020, 
State of Service- Akwa Ibom; Interview held with Kwembe, Comfort N. Ex- Corp 
Member 2016/ 2017 on July 21,2020, at Jos, State of Service- Plateau state,Age: 30.49
Interview with John Tikon. Ex-Corps Member, 2014/2015 on July 21,2020, at Jos State of 
Service- Niger, Age 30+; Interview held with Egonu Calistar. Ex- Corps Member 
2018/2019 on July 21,2020, State of Service- Plateau State.
TRENDS IN NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS UNIFORM, 1973-2020 373
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Corps members to their place of primary assignment help the 
public to assist Corps members and treat them with honour, 
50 
concern and respect. It is important to note that NYSC uniform 
is seen all year round, worn by Corps members in all the 774 
Local Government Areas and state capitals in Nigeria. This has 
helped in presenting the Scheme in a positive manner amongst 
the populace. Therefore, its influence on the general public 
cannot be overemphasised. Moreover, the attractiveness of the 
uniform helps to motivate younger children to aspire to be like 
the Corps members living around them or teaching in their 
schools. “The uniform makes one who isn't educated desire to go 
51 
to school or further his/her education”. Their desire to one-day 
wear the NYSC uniform encourages them to study hard. In fact, 
almost all the data collected from ex- and serving Corps 
members agreed that the NYSC uniform is attractive and was 
one of the motivating factors that encouraged them to aspire to 
serve. They were eager to wear the prestigious NYSC khaki 
uniform. Ikegh, an ex-corps member said; “I had always wanted 
to put on the NYSC uniform and be recognised also as a Corps 
52 
member”. Udu also opined that “NYSC uniform has influenced 
the general society or public by upgrading the mindset of the 
53
youths to know the importance of education”.
The uniform encourages friendliness and favour from the 
populace. People are quick to greet and familiarise themselves 
with Corps members when they see them in the street, market 
place, malls, worship centres etcetera. Slangs like ' wee', ' waa', 
'corpershion', otondo, are said to the Corps members in a bid to be 
friendly and start up a conversation even when they have not 
50
Interview with Mrs Ruth Bakka, Director Procurement, NYSC National Directorate 
Headquarters. August 10, 2020; Caroline Embu, State Coordinator, NYSC Secretariat Jos, 
Plateau State. July 2020.51 
Interview held with Bienose Clementina Ehi. Ex- Corps Member, 2017/2018, on July 
21,2020, at Jos State of Service-Plateau State, Age: 31+.52 
Interview held with Agatha Ikegh Ex-Corps Member 2017/2018 on July 21, 2020. State 
of Service- Plateau State. Age 30+53
Interview held with Udu, Jessica Chiamaka 2019/2020 on July 23, 2020 at Ministry of 
Commerce and Industry, Jos. State of service – Plateau state. Age: 20+.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020374
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

met the Corps members before in their entire life. It is this 
acceptance by the public that makes people render help or direct 
a Corps member to their place of primary assignment. It is only 
on rear occasions that evil- minded people take advantage of a 
Corps member's ignorance to mislead him/her with the 
intention to harm them.
To the Corps members, NYSC uniform is their identity. The 
uniform announces them wherever they go. It allows them the 
opportunity to freely mingle with their host communities and 
meet new people. The uniform behooves Corps members to be 
responsible and disciplined since the public expect a lot from 
them due to the general acceptance of the Scheme. Itodo, an ex-
Corps member succinctly narrates;
Being an NYSC member brought a lot of expectation 
from the society especially at my place of primary 
assignment, and I rose to the challenge and became the 
best Corps teacher when we passed out. NYSC made a 
lot of people see me as a role model and that actually 
made me to live a decent life with the thought that I am 
54
being watched by people and seen as a role model.
As university/polytechnic graduates, the society expects them 
to be intelligent, of good behaviour, and capable of handling any 
task given to them. Thus, they are respected and seen as role 
models especially when they appear in their uniforms which is 
the first point of communication between the Corps members 
and the people. The Corps members' personality and 
individuality are subsumed in the uniform. Therefore, it is the 
responsibility of Corps members to stand out in their respective 
places of primary assignment. Itodo's experience as a Corps 
member is further explained in the lines below: 
54
Interview held with Itodo Unekwu – Ex- Corps member 2012/2013 on July 21, 2020. 
State of Service- Osun State
TRENDS IN NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS UNIFORM, 1973-2020 375
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Outside my place of primary assignment especially the 
environment where I live, people (neighbours and 
children) respected me, so I was careful not to leave a 
bad example. I made sure my bears were well shaved at 
all times, my spoken English according to standard, my 
dressing was never out of point. This was to make sure 
that, the people who had utmost respect for me were 
not disappointed and to enable them struggle to also 
55
clad the uniform.
The uniform also opens door of opportunities and favour for 
Corps members. People consciously or unconsciously offer help 
to Corps members once they are seen with the uniform. Many 
members of the host communities are willing to assist Corps 
members by offering them accommodation, food items and 
many other things they might need while serving in their 
community. The uniform accords the Corps member 'special 
passage which under normal circumstances would not be 
56 
possible'. As observed by an ex-Corps member; “during my 
service year, I was given free ride from Osogbo to Ore in Ondo 
state and free ride back to Osogbo. I was given clearance to barb 
free in a barbing salon throughout my service year”.
It is noteworthy to mention that due to the significance of the 
uniform in engendering ethno-cultural integration, some 
unqualified persons otherwise referred to as fake Corps 
members often parade themselves in NYSC uniform as Corps 
members, deceiving the populace and giving the Scheme a bad 
name. However, in recent times, the Management of the Scheme 
has stepped up measures to block presentation of unqualified 
57 
persons for mobilisation. In the 2019 Batch 'B' Stream II 
Orientation course for instance, many fake graduates were 
55
Itodo Unekwu.56 
Interview held with Okeanyaego Ifeyinwa Courtney – Ex-Corps member 2019/2020 on 
July 24,2020, at National Institute for Pharmaceutical Research and Development 
(NIPRD), Abuja. State of Service- FCT.57 th 
Selected Speeches and Strides of the 18 NYSC Director –General, Brig. Gen S. Ibrahim, 147.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020376
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

arrested, leading to a drastic reduction in the number of persons 
58
claiming to be graduates of some African institutions.
Trends in NYSC Uniforms
The current trends surrounding the iconic NYSC uniforms have 
led to many Corps members either altering the design of the 
uniform to suit the trending fashion or demanding for a change 
in the uniforms. Factors such as economy, religion, fashion and 
sometimes culture are responsible for this development. As 
earlier stated, the fabrics used for the sewing of the NYSC 
uniforms have depreciated overtime mainly due to poor 
economic growth and corruption. Nigeria's exportation of crude 
oil helped to create wealth that account for about 60% of 
government revenue but the nation's inability to diversify and 
improve other sectors of the economy with the oil wealth 
accrued affected the growth and prosperity of industries in 
59
Nigeria . The textile industry which was one of the growing 
industries before the nation's total dependence on oil collapsed 
due to lack of raw materials and other salient factors. Cotton, 
being the main raw materials for textile industry, was no longer 
available in large quantity because agriculture was neglected. 
Also, high operative cost and frequent power failures further did 
serious damage to textile industry in Nigeria. The result of the 
above was drop in the production capacity and eventual shut 
60 
down of many of the factories. The closure of the textile 
industries such as the Kaduna Textile Limited, Kano Textile 
Printers; Kano Textile Industry, Bagauda Textile Industry, 
Arewa Textiles etcetera, led to major distributors importing 
cheap and substandard fabrics from overseas especially China 
58 
Ibid.59
Zara Emmanuel Kwaghe “Mismanagement of Petro-Dollar in Nigeria: An Albatross to 
National Progress and Development since 1956” in Egodi Uchendu (ed)Nigeria Resource 
Wars (Wilmington, Delaware: Vernon Press, 2020), 560.60 
“Textile-Nigeria's Dying Goldmine”, https://www.fibre2fashion.com/industry-
article/ 5973/textile-nigeria-s-dying-goldmine
TRENDS IN NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS UNIFORM, 1973-2020 377
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

61 
to flood the Nigerian market. These fabrics gradually began to 
replace the original and durable fabrics that once adorned the 
62
textile market . It is on the above premise that the NYSC 
63
uniforms are now sewn with substandard fabrics . In order to 
maximise profit, contractors responsible for purchasing the 
NYSC uniform go for cheaper and substandard fabrics imported 
64
from China which dominate the Nigerian market today . Little 
wonder NYSC uniforms, especially the khaki, have been 
depreciating in colour and quality overtime (see Fig 8 and 10). 
The same goes for the vests, shorts and belts. To further buttress 
the above, an ex-corps member opined: 
The people given the contract of sewing the uniform go 
to the market to purchase low quality material thereby 
making it to wear out on time and even begin fading 
65
before the end of the three-week orientation camp.
The manner in which the uniforms are sewn is another factor 
that has contributed to the current modification of the uniform 
by Corps members to suit their sense of fashion. The uniforms 
are sewn in different shapes and sizes; large, small and medium. 
Corps members given over-sized uniforms are allowed to shape 
them but not to slim fit, crop top or three-quarter shorts. In spite 
of the above rules, some corps members go out of their way to 
shape their khaki to slim fit or to three-quarter shorts. Some even 
go as far as purchasing the khaki fabric from the market to sew 
their own style of uniform because of the poor sewing and 
61
Salihu Maiwada and Elisha Renne “The Kaduna Textile Industry and the Decline of 
Textile Manufacturing in Northern Nigeria, 1955–2010” in Textile History, 44 (2), 171–196, 
November 2013, 183-184; Kasim Madugu, Yusuf, “Collapse of textile industry in Nigeria: 
a study of Kano State, Nigeria”, M.A dissertation submitted to the School of 
Postgraduate Studies, Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, April, 2019, 3.62
Salihu Maiwada and Elisha Renne “The Kaduna Textile Industry and the Decline of 
Textile Manufacturing in Northern Nigeria, 1955–2010”, 184.63
Interview with Mrs. Ruth Bakka and Mrs. Caroline Embu, State Coordinator, NYSC 
Secretariat Jos, Plateau State, July 22, 2020.64 
Ibid, 185.65 
Bienose Clementina Ehi
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020378
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

inferior texture of the khaki uniform given to them. The poor 
sewing could be attributed to the short period given to garment 
factories responsible for sewing some of the uniforms. In a 
March 2020 report the Cross River Garment Factory was given 
66 
only eight days to deliver eight thousand NYSC uniforms. Even 
though they promised to accomplish the task, eight days was too 
short a time to allow them do quality job. It is probably such 
quick and urgent sewing that makes the uniform not to be well 
sewn. Also in August 2020, NYSC reported that its garment 
factory in Minna produced 57,000 corps members' kits within 
three months. 12,000 khaki suits, 15,000 physical exercise shorts, 
67
15,000 crested vests and 15,000 plain vests were produced.
In recent times, religion has equally played a very prominent 
role in challenging the NYSC uniform as it relates to the female 
gender. It suffices to mention that the NYSC uniform was not 
designed on the basis of gender or religion. As earlier noted, the 
choice of military-style uniform was influenced by the kind of 
programme designed for Corps members. Bearing in mind the 
military influence of the Scheme, the uniforms were meant to be 
gender-neutral. For the past forty-seven years, the uniforms 
were worn by Corps members without contest. However, some 
female corps members from both the Christian and Islamic faith 
began to protest against the compulsory use of trousers and 
shorts by both male and female Corp members during the one-
68 
year mandatory service. They argued that it was against their 
religion for females to wear trousers or shorts as the case may be. 
Thus, for above reason they preferred to wear skirts rather than 
trousers. Apart from protest on wearing of skirts, female Muslim 
66
Imran Musa “Cross Rivers Garment Factory Contracted to make 8000 NYSC Uniform in 
eight days” , accessed 23/07/2020.https://allschool.com.ng/cross-rivers-garment-
factory- contracted-to-make-8000-nysc-uniform-in-eight-days/. March 15,2020.67 
Adetola Bademosi -Ab. “NYSC garment factory produces 57,000 corps kits in three 
months https://tribuneonlineng.com/nysc-garment-factory-produces-57000-corps-
kits-in-three- months/68
Queen Esther Iroanusi “Group wants skirts included in NYSC uniform” Premium Times, 
January 15, 2020.https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/more-news/372799-
group- wants-skirts-included-in-nysc-uniform.html. Accessed, July 23,2020.
TRENDS IN NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS UNIFORM, 1973-2020 379
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Corps members have also advocated for the inclusion of hijab as 
69
part of NYSC uniform which has been granted .
Those female Corps members who felt that wearing of 
trousers evoke immorality and that it is against God's will for 
females to wear the approved khaki trouser and shorts at the 
Orientation Camp resorted to changing their trousers to skirt 
and wearing white skirts on top of their white shorts for drills. In 
a recent development in Ebonyi State Permanent Orientation 
camp, Macgregor College Afikpo, two female corps members 
namely, Okafor Love Obianuju, with call-up number 
EB/19C/0523; and Odji Oritsetsolaye, with call-up number 
EB/19C/0530 were de-kitted for refusal to wear the NYSC 
approved uniforms. One of the de- kitted female corps member, 
Okafor Love Obianuju, in suit No. PHC/AI/CS/93/2019 dated 
29th November, 2019 sued NYSC to enforce her fundamental 
70 
rights. The whole phenomena elicited a lot of debate from the 
general public and Corps members which would be discussed in 
this chapter.
69 
Olaleye Aluko “NYSC approves white, shoulder-length hijab for corps members” 
Punch Newspaper , October 1, 2019. https://punchng.com/nysc-approves-white-
shoulder-length- hijab-for-corps-members/ Accessed, July 23, 2020; “NYSC And Hijab 
C o n t r o v e r s i e s ”  T h e  P o i n t e r ,  N o v e m b e r  8  , 2 0 2 0 .  
https://thepointernewsonline.com/?p=68388. Accessed November 28,2020.70
Iyabo Lawal “NYSC, expelled graduates and dress code controversy”. Accessed July 
23,2020, https://guardian.ng/features/nysc-expelled-graduates-and-dress-code-
controversy, November 14,2019.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020380
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Source: https://www.thenigerianvoice.com/news/283821/nysc- to-
huriwa-why-moslem-corpers-wear-hijab.html.
https://www.thesitenews.com/news/nysc-approves-white- 
shoulder-length-hijab-for-corps-members/. Accessed, July 23,2020.
Dress Code Controversy
The redesigning of the NYSC uniform by Corps members to 
conform to their fashion, religious or cultural sense in recent 
times is no longer news. Many, especially female Corps 
members, have redesigned their khaki to skirt, gown or skin-
tight trousers thereby defacing the NYSC uniform. This act has 
been condemned by the directorate because it violates the NYSC 
dress code. The scheme over the years has maintained same 
dress code since 1973 when it was established, devoid of ethnic, 
religious or gender bias. Thus, “any other dress code contrary to 
the officially-sanctioned one will not promote the course of 
71 
decency.” It is for this reason that Corps members found 
abusing the uniform are sanctioned according to the law. The 
most recent being the Ebonyi duo that were de-kitted and 
decamped from the orientation camp in 2019. The action taken 
by the Scheme elicited a lot of comments from corps members 
and the general public respectively. Concerned individuals like 
Fig.23.1: Female corps members' 
in Skirt instead of trousers.
Fig. 23.2: Female Muslim corps 
members in white shoulder-
length hijab.
71 
Ibid.
TRENDS IN NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS UNIFORM, 1973-2020 381
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Ebun- Olu Adegboruwa, SAN and The Human Rights Writers 
Association of Nigeria (HURIWA) condemned the action that 
was taken by NYSC. They opined that it was wrong for NYSC to 
decamp the Ebonyi duo because the same NYSC had permitted 
the use of white hijab for female Muslim Corps members, which 
must not be more than shoulder length and must be tucked into 
72
the uniform . Based on the 1999 Constitution of Nigeria (as 
amended), Ebun-Olu Adegboruwa reiterated that;
The Constitution says clearly that the NYSC should not 
deny any corps member any benefit that other corps 
members enjoy and it should also not accord any 
benefit to any set of corps members that others are 
denied of, by reason only of their faith, sex, tribe or 
gender. If the NYSC has accorded female Muslim corps 
members official recognition to practice their faith 
through the hijab which is external to the official 
uniforms supplied, then it has to, of necessity, sit down 
with female Christian corps members, to agree on the 
modality for the practice of their own faith, with regard 
73
to the white underwear.
In line with the above, some Corps members on the platform of 
“Serve with skirts Movement” were seen at a protest in Abuja on 
74 
Wednesday January 15, 2020. The group alleged that the use of 
trouser by female corps members evokes immorality. They 
displayed placards with captions such as; “There is a difference 
between the world and the daughters of God”; “Our sisters 
cannot dress like men, they should be decently covered” and 
72 
Ebun-Olu Adegboruwa “THE NYSC FAUX PAS”, accessed, July 23,2020, https:// 
thenigerialawyer.com/the-nysc-faux-pas-by-ebun-olu-adegboruwa-san/    November   73 
19,   2019. Ebun-Olu Adegboruwa “THE NYSC FAUX PAS”, accessed, July 23,2020, 
https:// thenigerialawyer.com/the-nysc-faux-pas-by-ebun-olu-adegboruwa-san/   
November   19,   2019.74 
Goodness Adaoyichie. “Trousers evoke immorality,' female corps members threaten to 
s u e  N Y S C  o v e r  s k i r t  r e f u s a l ” ,  a c c e s s e d ,  J u l y  2 3 , 2 0 2 0 ,  
https://www.pulse.ng/news/local/ trousers-evoke-immorality-female-corps-
members-threaten-to-sue-nysc-over-skirt/71kjjmm, January 15, 2020.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020382
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

“We are not worldly we are true children of God” among 
75 
others. The Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria 
(HURIWA) also protested to the Director General of NYSC 
“demanding that he ordered the reinstatement of the two female 
prospective Youth Corps members dismissed in Ebonyi State for 
76
failing to wear trousers due to their religious belief.”
Fig. 24: Some Female Corps Members protesting on the platform of 
“Serve with Skirt Movement”
Source: https://www.pulse.ng/news/local/trousers-evoke- 
immorality-female-corps-members-threaten-to-sue-nysc-over- 
skirt/71kjjmm. Accessed July 23, 2020.
The Director General (DG) of NYSC, Brig. Gen. S. Ibrahim, in 
response to all the hullabaloo did not fail to express his dismay 
over the dress code controversy albeit with understanding and 
firmness. Speaking through the NYSC's national spokesperson, 
Mrs. Adenike Adeyemi, he noted with great concern the 
negative perception of the scheme's dress code, arising mostly 
from some corps members' disobedience to the dictates of the 
75 
Ibid.76 
Nysc To Huriwa: Why Moslem Corpers Wear Hijab: Accessed, July 23,2020, https:// 
www.thenigerianvoice.com/news/283821/nysc-to-huriwa-why-moslem-corpers-
wear- hijab.html, December 23,2019.
TRENDS IN NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS UNIFORM, 1973-2020 383
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

code. He reiterated that the dress code remains the same since 
1973. Any other dress contrary to the approved ones would not 
be tolerated. He further stated that “it will be reprehensible for a 
female corps member to embark on obstacle crossing and other 
physical training activities on camp, including the parade, in 
skirt or gown because those will expose her indecently, thus, 
leaving little or nothing to the imagination”. He also condemned 
Corps members reshaping their khaki trousers, making them 
skin-tight, which unduly expose their curvatures, particularly 
the female corps members. “Some others, in the name of religion, 
turn the pair of trousers issued to them into skirts. The scheme, 
therefore, considers the unwholesome act as an affront to 
77 
decency on one hand and constituted authority on the other.”
He further expressed that it was for the above reason that 
NYSC came up with the policy of having prospective corps 
members sign undertaking forms to the effect that they will not 
deface the NYSC uniform, but abide by the dress code for corps 
78 
members. He has also not failed to remind corps members not 
to deface the NYSC uniform at every swearing-in-ceremony and 
to warn tailors operating in the camps to observe prescribed 
limits while adjusting the uniform for corps members or risk 
being decamped. On the aspect of hijab, the Director General, 
Brig. Gen. S. Ibrahim clarified that hijab is not part of NYSC dress 
code, although NYSC a long time ago permitted its use for 
Muslim female Corps members but must not be worn to deface 
the approved uniform. In the same vein, Christian corps 
members, particularly catholic reverend sisters, are permitted to 
79
put on veils, which must be of equal length with the hijab.
To finally put the case of dress code to rest, banners showing 
approved dress code were circulated in all the orientation camps 
77 
"NYSC DG Speaks on Dress Code Controversy”, Accessed July 23, 2020,https:// 
www.thisdaylive.com/index.php/2019/11/11/nysc-dg-speaks-on-dress-code-
controversy/, November 11,2019.78 
Ibid.79 
NYSC To Huriwa: Why Moslem Corpers Wear 
Hijab:https://www.thenigerianvoice.com/ news/283821/nysc-to-huriwa-why-
moslem-corpers-wear-hijab.html, December 23,2019.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020384
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

in the country, National Directorate Headquarters and other 
80 
formations of Scheme. This way corps members and the general 
public are acquainted with NYSC dress code. Below are images 
of the correct and incorrect dress code.
Fig. 25: Banner showing NYSC Correct Dress Code and Examples of 
Don'ts.
Source: NYSC Headquarters, Abuja. August 2020.
80 th 
Selected Speeches and Strides of the 18 NYSC Director –General, Brig. Gen S. Ibrahim , 147.
TRENDS IN NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS UNIFORM, 1973-2020 385
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Images of the abused uniform
Fig.26.1: Female Corps members in khaki skirts instead of trousers.
Source: https://www.naijaolofofo.com/senate-rejects-bill-include- 
skirts-hijab-nysc-uniform/ Accessed July 23, 2020
Fig. 26.2: Slim-fit khaki Trouser Fig. 26.3: Three-quarter overall
khaki Trouser
Source: https://m.scooper.news/2020/02/20/fashion-meets-nysc- 
see-stylish-ways-to-rock-your-khaki-uniform/8501004.    
Accessed July 23, 2020.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020386
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Fig.26. 4: Slim-fit khaki Trouser Fig. 26.5: Three-quarter khaki
trouser
Source: https://m.scooper.news/2020/02/20/fashion-meets- nysc-
see-stylish-ways-to-rock-your-khaki-uniform/8501004.
Accessed July 23,2020.
The current trends discussed above have negatively affected the 
NYSC uniform which is the mark of identity and brand of the 
Scheme. In the past, the uniform was worn with pride by corps 
members and almost every Nigerian graduate looked forward 
to wearing the uniform. But today, corps members violate the 
official dress code and even alter the design of the once revered 
uniform at will. This act informed the Director General's 
decision to ensure that all Corps members wear the NYSC 
uniform with pride and are disciplined for defacing or abusing 
the uniform. At the 2020 Batch 'A' pre-orientation meeting of 
Management with Area Coordinators, State Coordinators, 
Camp Directors, Camp Commandants and Collaborating 
Agencies, the DG emphasised the need for corps members to 
respect and cherish the NYSC uniform; 
TRENDS IN NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS UNIFORM, 1973-2020 387
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

...We must do everything possible to ensure that Corps 
members respect the uniform and use it correctly at all 
times. I will continue to monitor the level of compliance 
during my tour of Orientation camps and on other 
occasions. Area Coordinators are equally enjoined to 
ensure that Corps members do not abuse the uniform 
both during and after the Orientation course. 
Furthermore, tailors operating in our Camps should be 
warned to observe prescribed limits while adjusting the 
81 
uniform for Corps members or risk being decamped.
In order for the Scheme to achieve success in ensuring that 
Corps members do not continue to abuse the uniform, it is 
important for NYSC to critically consider and analyse some of 
the factors responsible for the abuse of the uniform by Corps 
members as discussed in this chapter. The first factor that 
demands correction is the variation in khaki colour and quality 
used by the different contractors in the thirty-six states including 
82 
the Federal Capital Territory. NYSC should endeavour to check 
the colour and quality of the fabrics used for their uniforms by 
the different contractors responsible for purchasing the fabrics. 
One colour of fabric should be used for the entire country. If 
green khaki is now the official colour, then green khaki should be 
used by all the states. Any other colour presented by contractors 
should be rejected out rightly. The quality of the fabrics should 
also be improved upon to avoid Corps members buying and 
sewing theirs. This factor is one of the major reasons why corps 
members abuse the uniform. In a bid to ensure they have descent 
uniform, some of the corps members who are not satisfied with 
what was given to them, buy better khaki fabric and redesign the 
uniform. Secondly, contractors should be given enough time to 
sew the uniform. When they are given only eight  days to deliver 
eight  thousand uniforms for instance, poor sewing is inevitable. 
81 th 
Selected Speeches and Strides of the 18 NYSC Director –General, Brig. Gen S. Ibrahim , 221. 82
Interview held with Nnamdi Okoroafor. Ex- Corp Member – 2010/2011at Etobaba, 
Jos on July 24,2020. Stat of Service- Jigawa State. Age: 31+.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020388
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Little wonder the uniform no longer withstand wear and tear 
before the end of the service year. Comments from some ex-
corps members on the reason for modification of the uniform by 
corps members suffice. “Some of the uniforms given to corps 
members are either oversized or under sized, which makes most 
83 
corps members modify the uniform to fit their fashion styles.”
“The uniforms are randomly distributed to corps members, 
most of the time they are either big or small when they wear it. It 
doesn't look good on them, that is why corps members modify it 
84 
to their taste” “It is due to the fact that different tailors are 
contracted for the production; that has made the quality to 
85 
change”. Thus, in order to curtail or end the abuse of the 
uniform by corps members, the directorate must find ways of 
addressing the above issues.
Conclusion
The present Director General of the NYSC, Brig. Gen. S. Ibrahim, 
must be commended for working tirelessly to ensure that the 
NYSC uniform is not abused or defaced by corps members, 
irrespective of fashion, culture, gender or religion. However, in 
order to achieve the Scheme's goal of respecting the uniform in 
this twenty-first century globalisation, it is of utmost importance 
for NYSC to continue to maintain a single tradition for all, 
irrespective of their religion or gender. NYSC uniform was 
designed by the founding fathers in 1973 devoid of ethnic, 
religious or gender bias, thus, allowing the use of hijab by female 
corps members which hitherto was not the tradition of NYSC 
will continue to attract religious debate over the existing 
uniform as seen in the case of the Ebonyi duo and “Serve with 
skirts Movement” in 2019. NYSC uniform, just like other service 
83 
Interview held with Usiosefe Stanley Daniel. Ex-Corp member, 2018/2019 at 
Etobaba, Jos on July 24,2020. State of service – Plateau State, Age:31+84
Interview held with Ezra Loyan Barawani.Ex-Corp member, 2019/2020 at Jos on July 
21,2020. State of Service, Plateau State.85
Interview held with Agbo Stephen. Ex-Corp member, 2018/2019 at Kakang, Jos. State 
of Service, Kano State.
TRENDS IN NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS UNIFORM, 1973-2020 389
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

uniforms (example Military, Police, Customs, Civil Defence 
etcetera), is a national uniform and as such must not be 
compromised by fashion, religion, gender or culture. It should 
be treated with respect, dignity and honour. Thus, if NYSC 
should continue to permit the use of items that are not part of its 
dress code, a day may come when the whole uniform would no 
longer be needed for the one service year.
Bibliography Primary Source Interviews
Mrs. Ruth Bakka, Director Procurement, NYSC National 
Directorate Headquarters. August 10, 2020
Mrs. Caroline Embu, State Coordinator, NYSC Secretariat Jos, 
Plateau State. July 22, 2020.
Ginika Okoroafor Ex- Corps Member 2012/2013 on July 21,2020, 
State of Service- Akwa Ibom
Kwembe, Comfort N. Ex- Corp Member 2016/2017 on July 
21,2020, at Jos, State of Service- Plateau state, Age: 30+
John Tikon. Ex-Corps Member, 2014/2015 on July 21,2020, at Jos 
State of Service- Niger, Age 30+
Egonu Calistar. Ex- Corps Member 2018/2019 on July 21,2020, 
State of Service- Plateau State.
Bienose Clementina Ehi. Ex- Corps Member, 2017/2018, on July 
21,2020, at Jos State of Service-Plateau State, Age: 30+.
Agatha Ikegh Ex-Corps Member 2017/2018 on July 21, 2020. 
State of Service- Plateau State.
Udu, Jessica Chiamaka 2019/2020 on July 23, 2020 at Ministry of 
Commerce and Industry, Jos. State of service – Plateau 
state. Age: 23.
Itodo Unekwu – Ex- Corps member 2012/2013 on July 21, 2020, 
State of Service- Osun State
Okeanyaego Ifeyinwa Courtney – Ex-Corps member 2019/2020 
on July 24,2020, at National Institute for Pharmaceutical 
Research and Development (NIPRD), Abuja. State of 
Service- FCT.Nnamdi Okoroafor. Ex- Corp Member – 
2010/2011at Etobaba, Jos on July 24,2020, Stat of Service- 
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020390
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Jigawa State. Age: 31+.
Usiosefe Stanley Daniel. Ex-Corp member, 2018/2019 at 
Etobaba, Jos on July 24,2020. State of service – Plateau State, 
Age:31+
Ezra Loyan Barawani. Ex-Corp member, 2019/2020 at Jos on 
July 21,2020. State of Service, Plateau State.
Agbo Stephen. Ex-Corp member, 2018/2019 at Kakang, Jos. 
State of Service, Kano State.
Emmanuel Daniel Marga. Serving Corp member, 2020/2021 at 
Jos.
State of Service, Plateau State (see Figures 1 &2).
Secondary Sources
Adaoyichie, Goodness. “Trousers evoke immorality,' female 
corps members threaten to sue NYSC over skirt refusal”. 
https://www.pulse.ng/news/local/ trousers-evoke-
immorality-female-corps-members- threaten-to-sue-nysc-
over-skirt/71kjjmm, January 15, 2020.
Adegboruwa, Ebun-Olu. “THE NYSC FAUX PAS”. https:// 
thenigerialawyer.com/the-nysc-faux-
pas-by-ebun-olu-adegboruwa-san/ November 19, 2019.
Aluko, Olaleye “NYSC approves white, shoulder-length hijab 
for corps members” Punch Newspaper, October 1, 
2019. https://punchng.com/nysc-approves-white- 
shoulder-length-hijab-for-corps-members/
Asein ,Samuel O. Call to Serve: Twenty Years of the National 
Youth Service Corps Scheme
1973-1993 . Ibadan: Sam Bookman Educational and 
Communication Services, 1993.
Babu, Pandey Krishna. “Who and Why Invented the Uniform?” 
https://www.listsworld.com/who-and-why-invented-
the- school-uniform.
Bademosi –Ab, Adetola. “NYSC garment factory produces 
5 7 , 0 0 0 c o r p s  k i t s  i n  t h r e e  m o n t h s  
TRENDS IN NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS UNIFORM, 1973-2020 391
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

https://tribuneonlineng.com/nysc-garment-factory-
produces-
57000-corps-kits-in-three-months/
Craik, Jennifer. Uniform Exposed: From Conformity to 
Transgression.
Berg Publishers, 2005.
Enegwea, Gregory and Gabriel Umoden. (eds) NYSC: Twenty 
Years of National Service. Lagos: Gabumo
Publishing Company, 1993.
“History of U.S Army Uniform” 
https://www.military.com/army/ uniforms.html.
Iroanusi, Queen Esther “Group wants skirts included in NYSC 
uniform” Premium Times,
January 15, 2020. https://www.premiumtimesng.com/ 
news/more-news/372799-group-wants-skirts-included-
in- nysc-uniform.html.
Kirsanova, Raisa “Russia: History of Dress” https://fashion- 
history.lovetoknow.com/clothing-
around-the -world/russia-history-dress.
Kwaghe, Zara Emmanuel “Mismanagement of Petro-Dollar in 
Nigeria: An Albatross to National
Progress and Development since 1956" in Egodi Uchendu (ed) 
Nigeria Resource Wars Wilmington, Delaware: Vernon 
Press, 2020.
Lawal, Iyabo “NYSC, expelled graduates and dress code 
controversy”.
https://guardian.ng/features/nysc-expelled-graduates-and- 
dress-code-controversy, November 14,2019.
Maiwada, Salihu and Elisha Renne “The Kaduna Textile 
Industry and the Decline of Textile
Manufacturing in Northern Nigeria, 1955–2010" in Textile 
History, 44 (2), 171–196, November 2013.
Michele, Meleen. “History of School Uniforms” 
h t t p s : / / k i d s . l o v e t o k n o w . c o m / w I ki/
History_of_School_Uniforms
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020392
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Musa, Imran “Cross Rivers Garment Factory Contracted to 
make 8000 NYSC Uniform in eight
days”. https://allschool.com.ng/cross-rivers-garment-factory- 
contracted-to-make-8000-nysc-uniform-in-eight-days/. 
March 15,2020.
th 
National Youth Service Corps Yearbook 45 Anniversary 
Commemorative Edition, 2018.
Nigerian Criminal Code Act. Chapter 12.
“NYSC DG Speaks on Dress Code Controversy”. 
https://www.thisdaylive.com/index.php/2019/11/11/
nysc-dg-
speaks-on-dress-code-controversy/, November 11,2019.
Nysc To Huriwa: Why Moslem Corpers Wear Hijab:
https://www.thenigerianvoice.com/news/283821/nysc-to- 
huriwa-why-moslem-corpers-wear-hijab.html, December 
23,2019.
Pfanner, Toni. “Military uniforms and the Law of War” 
International Review of Red Cross IRRC
March 2004, Vol.86, No.853.
th 
Selected Speeches and Strides of the 18 NYSC Director –General, 
Brig.
Gen S. Ibrahim. Abuja:
The Special Duties Department, NYSC National Directorate 
Headquarters, 2020.
Stephenson, Kate. “A History of British Uniform”, PhD Thesis, 
University of York, January 2016.
Sterman, Sonja. “The Protective Role of Uniforms and their 
Communication Power in Society”, 
TEDI- International Interdisciplinary Journal of Young Scientists 
from the Faculty of Textile Technology Vol.1 (2011).
“The concept of Khaki fabric? And their salient features in the
uniform industry”
http://vinatexvsc.com/news/textile-new/the-concept-of-
khaki-fabric-and-their-salient-features-in-the-uniform-
industry- 803.html.
TRENDS IN NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS UNIFORM, 1973-2020 393
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

“ T h e  H i s t o r y  o f  C o r p o r a t e  U n i f o r m s ”  
https://www.wiseworksafe.com/blog/view/the-
history- of-corporate-uniforms.
The National Youth Service Corps Act, Chapter 84
“ T e x t i l e - N i g e r i a ' s  D y i n g  G o l d m i n e ” ,  
h t t p s : / / w w w . f i b r e 2 f a s h i o n . c o m / i n d u s t r y -
article/5973/textile-nigeria-s-dying-goldmine.
Yusuf, Kasim Madugu “Collapse of textile industry in Nigeria: a 
study of Kano State, Nigeria”,
M.A dissertation submitted to the School of Postgraduate 
Studies, Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, April, 2019.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020394
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Chapter Thirteen
NYSC AND SPORTS/GAMES ACTIVITIES IN 
NIGERIA SINCE 1973
Folusho Adewumi ladipo 
Department of History 
Bowen University
Iwo, Nigeria.
Introduction
Over the years, it has been validated by health organisations 
around the world, including the World Health Organisation 
(WHO), that the condition of a people's health is of great 
importance as it determines the productivity of individuals and 1 
the nation at large. It therefore means that body and mental 
fitness is inextricably tied to human prosperity and success, 
which is possible only through a healthy and mentally alert 
mind that is aware of its environment. Sport is a universal 
phenomenon traceable to a period as far back as not less than 
3000 years ago, when it involved the throwing of spears, stakes, 2
rocks and sparring one on one with opponents . With the first 
Olympic Games in 776BC which included events such as foot 
and chariot races, wrestling, jumping, discus and javelin 
throwing, the Ancient Greeks introduced formal sports to the 3
world . Africa, however, expanded on the sport range in 
response to the requirements and peculiarities of its terrain. In 
Nigeria, for example, though there had been varying and scanty 
support for sports, particularly in the colonial phase, it received 
1
Maaoud,R& Day-Stirk,F. 2014. “Improving Health Worker Productivity and 
Performance in the Context of Universal Health Coverage: The Roles of Standards, 
Quality Improvement, and Regulation-Finl Draft. Technical Working Group(TWG)7: 3.2
Bellis, M. 2019. “ A Brief History of Sports.” ThoughtCo, Sept 12, 2020. https:// 
thoughtco.com/history-of-sports-1992447.3
Bellis, M. 2019.” A   History of Sports…
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

a systemic support and projection since the attempted tearing 
apart of the fragile Nigerian social fabric in 1967 under the cloud 4
of apparent apathy and ethnic suspicion .
Since the deployment of sports by the National Youth 
Service Corps (NYSC) established to integrate Nigerian youths 
into the nation's building process, it has been a major cord that 
has boundthe Nigerian peoples, promoted social inclusion, and 
indoctrinated the youths to leadership responsibilities while 
managing differences.
Though a plethora of definitions exists on the concept of 
sports/ games, for the purposes of this research, sports/games is 
conceptualised as activities that involve physical, mental, and 
psychological exercises that require physical competition with 
an opponent(s),with established procedures, rules and defined 5
criteria for determining victory .There is a thin line of distinction 
between sports and games. While the former is contemporary 
and institutionalised, the latter inhabits the characteristics of the 
former. Hence, both terms would be used interchangeably in 
this work. The work examines the relevance of sports in the 
pursuit of national unity as deployed by the NYSC since 1973. It 
analyses the nature and dynamics of sporting activities during 
three distinct historical phases namely pre-colonial, colonial and 
post -colonial periods.
Sporting Activities in the Pre-colonial Nigeria
The deployment of sports for its multipurpose functions ranging 
from copious social relevance to individual advantages was not 
downplayed by the various states, empires and communities 
that make up Nigeria such as the Oyo Empire, the Bornu Empire, 
the Hausa States, the Igbo communities, among others. They 
were a one human entity who had interacted through peaceful 
and violent means, partly on foundations of having similar 
accounts of descent and on the basis of comparative advantages. 
4
Jaiyesimi,B, J. Babalola& T. Bamitale. 2016. “Critical Review of Sports as a Catalyst for th 
Peace and Development in Nigeria.” 11 UNILAG Annual Research Conference and Fair 11:2.5
 Poliakoff, M.B. 1987. CombatSports in the Ancient World: Competition, Violence and Culture. 
New Haven, CT:Yale University Press.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020396
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Sports were deployed to further cement relationships, 
encourage healthy interactions and build socially responsive 
and mentally alert minds that could contribute reasonably to the 6
development of their states .
In line with the foregoing as established in this discourse, 
various ethnic groups practiced sports that firmly connected 
with their cultural needs, environmental circumstances, and 
also increased their environmental awareness. The type of 
games engaged in was heavily dependent on age, gender and 
purpose. In spite of differing circumstances, the games engaged 
in were relatively similar though with differing names and 
appellations, and also served the dual purposes of recreation 
and competition. In spite of the priority and importance attached 
to the dignity of labour which had direct impact on the economy 
and on the economic abilities of the people, sporting activities 
were essential unwinding options, particularly in the case of 
recreation for individual purposes and fitness in developing 
whole and balanced individuals. Games prevalent in the various 
states ranged from wrestling, dance, draft, poetry chanting, 
hunting, and so on. There were differences in the varieties of 
games engaged in by different age groups as energy, 
exuberance, vibrancy and social roles were important 
determinants; hence the classification of adult and children's 7
games . Adult games and relaxation were highly technical, 8 
cerebral and tactical as distinct from younger age groups games.
Games for this latter category included wrestling, draft, 
dancing, and a host of others.
Hunting was an essential activity for the survival of the 
prehistoric men of Africa who began stages of evolution from 
being wanderers that exclusively depended on fruits, to cave 
dwellers that augmented their diet with protein supplements 
6
Awoyinfa, J& A. Oladipo. 2016. “The Contribution of Sports, Physical Education and 
Recreational Indices in Promoting Health and Peace among the Youth in Nigeria.” 
Literacy Information and Computer Education Journal(LICEJ), nos.3: 23557
Akanbi, T.2014. “The Moral Value of Yoruba Moonlight Tales” Open Journal of Modern 
Logistics4: 481-486.8
Akanbi, T.(2014) “The Moral Value of Yoruba Moonlight Tales”…
NYSC AND SPORTS/GAMES ACTIVITIES IN NIGERIA SINCE 1973 397
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

provided by wild animals. The evolution of agriculture and 
settled life changed hunting from being a survival technique to a 
practiced sport. For recreation, young men and adults would go 
into the forest to hunt for games usually at daytime in company 
of others who kept watch. This facilitated the awareness of their 
environment and achieved togetherness, as games caught 
would be shared by all participants. For competitions, it was 
usually held on a large scale, drawing contestants from eligible 
competitors who would be required to capture wild animals 9
with bounty or pride of place for any that catches the largest . 
Usually, neighboring communities were invited to participate 10
both actively and passively .This sport trained contestants in 
mental and physical alertness, tactical calculations, stealth, and 
also fostered closer ties of intergroup relations, and, by so doing, 11
feathering the one human entity nest .
Wrestling was also replicated in many communities. The 
roles of wrestling in many communities and ethnic groups 12
served as bragging opportunities for individuals with agility. It 
was an intriguing game that demonstrated strength and 
prowess. For the Yoruba, it was a competition synonymous with 
the history of Offa Town in present day Kwara State. It was a 
competition for male adults usually of the same age range. It 
emanated from the cultural history of two Offa brothers who 13
wrestled at the bank of a river on account of a piece of lost yam . 
This sport unified neighboring communities who were invited 
to witness the infamous game, hence cementing relationships 14
and promoting cultural knowledge .
Also, among the Fulani, it was a social structure through 
which young adults were initiated into adulthood. As a process 
9
Onumonu,U. Department of History and International Studies, Adeleke University, th 
Ede, Osun state. Interviewed on 14 of August, 2020.10 11
Onumonu,U… Onumonu,U…12
EtseyAtisu. 2012. “9 Traditional African Sports that Survived Colonialism.”.Uploaded 
July 19, 2019.Accessed July 25, 2020.Https://face to face africa.com/article/9-traditional 
-african- sports-that-survived-colonialism/3.13
Ahmad, R. 2018. “Ijakadi: Offa's Big Wrestling Festival.” Daily Trust Online January th, 
Edition.Accessed August 20 2020.   D.ailytrust.com/ijakadi-offas-big-wrestling-festival 14
Ahmad, R. 2018. “Ijakadi:..
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020398
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

of initiation, young adults would be beaten usually in the public 
arena and their ability to withstand the pain qualified them for 
adulthood. It is remarkable to note that this process was a pre-15 
qualification for marriage. In the case of the Igbo, wrestling 
exceeded being a sport or entertainment to being used as a tool 
for facilitating intergroup relations. The performance of this 
sport was preceded by intense preparation by intending 16 
contestants as they needed to be physically and mentally fit. In 
entertainment, many Igbo communities had their wrestling 
icons or groups that were often invited to wrestling competitions 
by their Igbo clans and other neighbors. The village square was 
the appropriate arena as the village Assembly would be 
constituted for invited guests to watch and be entertained. The 
young man that emerged winner was granted titles, social 17
statuses and pride of place as the Dimgba . Through this game, 
interrelationships were built and sustained in such a manner 
that ethnic inclinations were not considered as topics of 
discussions, but only rather welded the bonds of the pre-colonial 
people. Apart from the above-mentioned purposes, traditional 
wrestling was used to settle local conflicts and disputes between 18
two villages . As common to human relationships, conflict often 
broke out between communities over different reasons ranging 
from fishing rights, land acquisition, trespassing, among 19
others . On the basis of prior relationship, rather than resolving 
to violent means, both communities would propose wrestling 20
competitions as a peaceful way to resolving their differences . 
The winning side might have an advantaged position over the 
contentious issue, but beyond that, the game was deployed to 
15
Nakou, S.A. 2012. “Cultural practice and Social Initiation in Sub-Saharan Africa: The 
Culture of Flogging in Barugube Fulani of Benin.”Higher Education of Social Science 3, nos 3: 
50-57.16 th
Umenze, Albert. Traditional wrestling in Igbo land.Retrieved July 27 , 2020 from 
www.movenaija .org.17
EtseyAtisu. 9 Traditional African Sports that Survived Colonialism…18
Umenze, Albert. Traditional wrestling in Igbo land…19
Ezenwoko,F& J. Osagie. 2014. “Conflict and Conflict Resolution in Pre-Colonial Igbo 
Society of Nigeria.” Journal of Studies in Social Science 9,nos 1: 125-139.20
Anon. 2016.” Traditional Wrestling in Igbo Land.” Uploaded June 5,2016. Accessed 
August 29, 2020. https://www.movenaija.org/traditional-wrestling-in-igbo-land/
NYSC AND SPORTS/GAMES ACTIVITIES IN NIGERIA SINCE 1973 399
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

broker peace and bring to the fore the indispensability of co-21
operation, thereby dousing conflicting tensions .
Sporting/Games Activities in the Colonial Nigeria
The idea of sports was not strange to the colonial administrators 
as it had met a number of their physical, mental, health and 
social needs in their home country and thus was brought to 22
colonial Nigeria . Within the premise of discrediting indigenous 
ingenuity and the proliferation of Christianity, indigenous 
sports such as songs and dance, among others, were tagged bad 23
and immoral . Consequently, these sports began losing 
popularity, though some remained. With colonialism came 
European game varieties that were to be introduced to schools 
under the 1915 Education Policy for the purposes of formation of 
character and habits of discipline, thus inculcating these 
European styles in the colonial educational trainees who would 
be casual workers in British administration and teachers that 24
would teach British curriculums in Nigerian schools . In-spite of 
the aforementioned goals of the colonial administration, these 
sports also played the trick of unifying persons of different 
ethnic groups with polo reserved for the sons of chiefs and others 
who could afford it. For the other boys, however, cricket, football 
and aesthetics brought the staff and pupils in close touch, and 25
consequently had the best effect in training character . To reflect 
on the above stated social stratification, the courts for these 
21
Anon. 2016.” Traditional Wrestling in Igbo Land.” Uploaded June 5,2016. 
Accessed August 29, 2020. https://www.movenaija.org/traditional-
wrestling-in-igbo-land/22
Mangan,J. 2000. “Athleticism in the Victorian and Edwardian Public 
School.”London:Frank Cass.23
Okeke, C, Ibenwa, C& G. Okeke. 2017. “ Conflicts between African 
Traditional Religion and Christianity in Eastern Nigeria: The Igbo Example.” 
SAGE Open April-June:4.24
Obasa, O. 2015.” Sports and the Modernity of Leisure in Nigeria: Stadium 
Space and the Symbolisms of Expressions, 1930-1980.” Unpublished Ph.D 
Thesis submitted to the Univesity of Texas at Austin. 1.25
Lugard,F. The Dual Mandate in British Tropical Africa in Obasa, O. 2015.” 
Sports and the Modernity of Leisure in Nigeria…”
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020400
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

games were sited in European residential areas. Some of such 
courts include the Ibadan European Club established in 1902 at 
Onireke GRA now known as Ibadan Recreation Club since 1950. 
These clubs had such facilities as tar and sand tennis courts, 
indoor squash courts, European style swimming pool, and 
billiards table and recreation club. There was also the Ikoyi Golf 
Club of 1938 (a merger of European club and Lagos club, among 
others). The clubs and recreational centers were a melting pot for 
wealthy Nigerian elites and British administrators, particularly 
in the latter part of colonialism.
The European style of football, which was and is the most 
widely played sports regardless of social and ethnic cards, was 
first introduced to Nigeria in 1902 by Rev James Luke of Scotland 26
who was the headmaster of Hope Waddell Training Institute , a 
Presbyterian Mission School, Calabar. This is commonly 
regarded as the introduction of European football in Nigeria.
Furthermore, annual inter school sports competitions were 
organised with the ultimate aim of increasing the prospects of 
interaction among Nigerian youths who ordinarily would not 27
have met . The Nigerian students took advantage of the events 
to interact, hence bridging polarisation along ethnic and 
religious backgrounds. There was also the passive and active 
training of teachers in this school who later spread across the 
country, as a result of which the knowledge of sports soon 
spread across colonial Nigeria. Football as a sport outshone 
other sports introduced by the colonial administration due to its 
relative accessibility. On the home front, there were Nigerians 
such as Nnamdi Azikwe who discovered the potentiality of 
sports to bind, unify and, most importantly, promote the spirit of 
healthy sportsmanship and competition, and thus established st 
the 1 African controlled sports club named Ziks Athletic Club 
(ZAC) and football team which he deployed as an alternative to 
the selective and racially biased British run clubs that had 
26
Anon. 1998.The Intersection of Sports and Politics in the Pre-colonial and Colonial th 
Period.Sports and Politics in British West / Central Africa. Accessed 5 September, 2020 from 
laghanatogoboutsport.weebly.com27
Obasa, O. 2015.” Sports and the Modernity of Leisure in Nigeria:…
NYSC AND SPORTS/GAMES ACTIVITIES IN NIGERIA SINCE 1973 401
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

controlled  Nigerian sports. Through this platform, Pan-African 28
ideas were spread and the British authority was countered .
In-spite of the prior motive of the British monopolising the 
knowledge of football through its owned camps, this plan was 
upset by ZAC and the effects of the Second World War played 29
important roles in the expansion of the Nigerian football . The 
rapid development of football led to the establishment of the 
Nigerian Football Association charged with the responsibility of 30
overseeing and coordinating football matters in 1933 . Urban 
prosperity, a significant effect of the war, improved the 
purchasing ability of the people, increased social amenities and 
recreational times in which many Nigerian elites, especially in 
the urban centers, turned to football as a means of recreation 
through which it was projected to other parts of the country. The 
inter-regional competition inspired by ZAC which had 
proliferated in many parts of the country deepened Pan-
Africanist ideas and the common identity shared by Nigerians 31
in-spite of the divergent ethnic orientation/ regions . The 
proliferation of local football clubs through which youngsters 
developed and sharpened their football skills contributed 
greatly to the pooling of national team members through the 
instrumentality of the NFA in 1949 in preparation for Nigeria's 32
first international outing .
Nigeria's first participation in an international competition 
was in 1934 when Nnamdi Azikwe represented her in the 440 
yards (400m) at the Commonwealth Games and Empire Day 33 
competitions in London. The country   also had her first 
28
Anon. 2013. “Intersection of Sports and Politics in the Nationalist Period (1940s-60s); t h
Nigerian Nationalism and Football. Accessed August 30 , 2020. http:// 
webeninnigeriaghanatogoboutsport.weebly.com/nationalist-period.html.29
Anon. 2013. “Intersection of Sports and Politics in the Nationalist Period (1940s-60s)… 30
Wiebe, B. “A Story of Heroes and Epics: The story of Football in Nigeria.” Business Day th 
Online. Uploaded June 7,2018. Accessed 29 of August,2020. www.google.com/amp/s/ 
businessday.ng/arts-bdlife-arts/article/story-heroes-epics-story-football-nigeria/amp/   31
 Anon. 2013. “Intersection  of Sports and Politics in the Nationalist Period (1940s-60s);…32 
Aiyegbayo, O. The Story of the 1949 Nigerian Football Team's UK Tour. Uploaded August th
6, 2016. Accessed August 30 , 2020. https://www.horebinternational.com/the-story-of - 
the-1949- igerian-football-teams-uk-tour/33
National Sports Policy of Nigeria. 2009. P. 1.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020402
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

appearance in the Olympics games in Helsinki in 1952, but its 
first medal in the high jump through Emmanuel Ifeajuna in 1954 34
who won a gold medal in the Commonwealth games in Cardiff .
Sporting/Games Activities in the Post-Colonial Nigeria up to 
1973 
Since the 1951 Macpherson constitution, the regional 
government of the three zones in Nigeria began having 
increasing power to herald changes and initiate development in 
preparation for independence. On the strength of the immense 
advantages of sports in areas of human development, fostering 
of bonds and serving as a tool of peaceful interactions, the 
regions established sports councils and a National Sports 35
Council was established in 1962 . In practicality, the Western 
Region led by Premier Obafemi Awolowo committed his 
government to the infrastructural and human developments of 
the sports industry as this was to create a suitable environment th 
for sports to thrive. On the 30 of September, 1960, Obafemi 
Awolowo unveiled the Olympic Standard Liberty Stadium, 
Ibadan, which had a 45,000 spectator capacity with features of 36
track and field events . The sports complex not only 
demonstrated and reflected the modernity of the newly 
independent state, but, more importantly, it served as the first 
step towards a coherent policy of building sport facilities for the 37
youths of Nigeria . This stadium was often used by young 
athletes who paraded their knowledge of sports in the presence 38 
of dignitaries during festivities. The sporting activities that 
would be conducted in the stadium were intended to motivate 
spectators and subtly persuade them to pursue a career in 39
sports . The cohesive roles played by the stadium framed local 
34
Nigerian Sports History. 2016. Information retrieved from www.nigerian.gov.ng/nigeria's th 
sports history on the 5 of September, 2019.35
Bashir, S. 2015. “The Impact of the Nigerian Army on the Development of Sports in Nigeria.” A 
Msc Thesis submitted to the Postgraduate School, Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, Nigeria. 31.36
Obasa, O. 2015 . “Sports and the Modernity of Leisure in Nigeria: Stadium Space and the 
Symbolisms of Expressions, 1930-1980.” Unpublished Ph.D Thesis submitted to the University 
of Texas at Austin. 1.37
Obasa, O. 2015.” Sports and the Modernity of Leisure in Nigeria… 38
Obasa, O. 2015.” Sports and the Modernity of Leisure in Nigeria… 39
Obasa, O. 2015.” Sports and the Modernity of Leisure in Nigeria..
NYSC AND SPORTS/GAMES ACTIVITIES IN NIGERIA SINCE 1973 403
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

identity in terms of speculator culture and speculator behaviour, 
with their subsequent discussion in the press, especially the then 
newly established Western Nigeria Television (WNTV) which 40
helped to forge locally specific sporting affiliations . The 
stadium and spectators contributed to the construction of 
Nigerian national identity through the constant comparisons 
being generated in the Nigerian press between the Nigerian 
stadium, the crowds and their counterparts elsewhere in Africa, 
especially in Ghana, which was Nigeria's number one rival in 41
West Africa . Without a corresponding support for human 
development, the purpose of the infrastructures would be 
defeated hence the Western Region government, through the 
instrumentality of the Western Region Development 
Corporation (WNDC), founded a home-based Pepsi-Cola 
Football Club in 1960 which later metamorphosed into the 3SC 42
of Ibadan . The Club has represented Nigeria in various 
intercontinental competitions with awards to show. For 
example, it was the first club to win African Cup for Nigeria in 
1976. It also later wone won the WAFU and Nigerian 43
Professional League in 1998/1999, among other awards . From 
2005 till date, the Club has been able to produce players such as 
Dele Adeleye, Soga Sambo, Abiodun Akande, Ajayi Junior and 
Chima Akass, among others, to represent it and project its good 44
image at the senior and junior national teams .
The history and development of physical education in 
Nigeria will be incomplete without recognising the roles that 
have been played by the Nigerian Army in the development and 45
promotion of sports in Nigeria , both in the colonial and post-
colonial eras.
40
Obasa, O. 2015.” Sports and the Modernity of Leisure in Nigeria…8341
Obasa, O. 2015.” Sports and the Modernity of Leisure in Nigeria…8342 th 
Oyo State Government Sports Page. 2020. Shooting Stars Football Club. Accessed 28 of 
November, 2020. Oyostate.gov.ng/shooting-stars-sports-club/43
Oyo State Government Sports  Page. 2020.Shooting Stars Football Club...44
Oyo State Government Sports  Page. 2020.Shooting Stars Football Club...45
Bashir, S. 2015. “The Impact of the Nigerian Army on the Development of Sports in 
Nigeria.” A Msc Thesis submitted to the Postgraduate School, Ahmadu Bello University, 
Zaria, Nigeria. 11.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020404
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Nigerian Army developed interest in sports from the time 46
they started taking part in the Empire Day Celebrations in 1914 , 
after which it became fully involved in organised competitive 
sports with the aim of providing the country's sportsmen and 
women for international sports competitions and maintaining a 
physically fit and healthy condition. Competitive sports began th th 
in 1924 between 10 and 14 November, with regimental games, 
closely followed by a polo tournament for soldiers with 
disabilities in which five teams competed and had the whole 47
European community in Kaduna in attendance . These games 
laid the foundation for sports in the Nigerian Army, which is 48
called Army Games . Army Games became an annual and 
infamous competition, incorporating track and field events till it 49
was interrupted between 1966 and 1970 due to the civil war . 
Immediately after the civil war, the Army Games were re-
introduced in an elaborate form with more sporting events in 
1970, and greater commitments to its re-organisation and the 
provision of sporting equipment and facilities. In 1972, all Army 
formations and units became involved in the game. th 
Before the military took over on the 15 of January, 1966, each
region was running its sports council unilaterally without 50
synchronising with the central Sports Council . With the 
creation of states in 1967, the 12 states established individual 
sports council, still without being in harmony with the central 51
body . In 1966, with the enthusiasm of Gen Yakubu Gowon who 
was interested in sports, Nigeria sent a strong team of sports 
men and women to Kingston, Jamaica, for the Commonwealth 52
and Nigeria won 10 medals: 3 gold, 4 silver and 3 bronze . Other 
subsequent games Nigeria also partook in include the 1968 
46
Bashir, S. 2015. “The Impact of the Nigerian Army on the Development of Sports in 
Nigeria… 47
Bashir, S. 2015. “The Impact of the Nigerian Army on the Development of Sports in 
Nigeria…24.48
Bashir, S. 2015. …25.49
Bashir, S. 2015. …25.50
Bashir, S. 2015. …31.51
Bashir, S. 2015. …3152
Bashir, S. 2015. …32
NYSC AND SPORTS/GAMES ACTIVITIES IN NIGERIA SINCE 1973 405
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Mexico games, 1970 Edinburgh games in which she won 2 gold 
medals, 1972 Munich games, 1974 New Zealand games where 53
she won 10 medals: 3 gold, 3 silver and 4 bronze .
For the effective coordination and unification of sporting 
activities in the country, the National Sports Commission was 
established through Decree No. 34 of August, 1971, and the body 
was charged with the responsibility of overseeing all sporting 54
activities in the country . Through the Sports Commission, 
Nigeria held its maiden National Sports Festival which pooled 55
contestants across the country to compete favourably in 1973 . 
Through the efforts of the military, Nigeria bounced back in 
participating in international competitions and outings that 
shaped the country's identity after the civil war.
The NYSC and the Emergence of the NYSC Games
The civil war that spanned 1967-1970 was a reflection of the 
buildup of injustice, hostile coexistence and unfriendly relations 
that had pervaded the Nigerian space since colonialism, and 
which magnified the differences between the various ethnic 
groups. The aftermath of the war needed to be treated with the 
right doses of peaceful interactions, hence necessitating the 
establishment of an agency that could be instrumental in the 
rebuilding of national consciousness and the de-emphasising of 
ethnic loyalty, mutual group suspicion and distrust in the 
battered polity. The Federal Military Government, after a careful 
review of sports development in the aftermath of the civil war, 
revealed that Nigerians should pay more attention to sports 
since it enhances the spirit of brotherhood and coexistence 56
among the people . In rebuilding Nigeria, the energy of the 
youths who had participated in the civil war needed to be pooled 
together and redirected to the usefulness of the country. nd 
Consequent, by Decree No. 24 of the 22 of May, 1973, the NYSC 
53
Bashir, S. 2015. …3254
Bashir, S. 2015. …3255
Bashir, S. 2015. …3356
Bashir, S. 2015…25
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020406
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

57
was founded . The NYSC is a compulsory national service for all 
Nigerian graduates of Universities, Polytechnics and Colleges of 
Education trained within and outside the country.
Games have constituted an indispensable part of the 58 
activities of the NYSC in its pursuit of the 3Rs since its inception
both within the NYSC confined spaces and without. Games have 
been adopted as a major key to achieving national unity, and this 
because of the fertile ground of friendship facilitated by sports, 59
hence the emphasis on 'play the ball and not the leg' . There are 
compulsory activities corps members must participate in, 
especially a few sports organised by partnering paramilitary 
agencies in the camp, ranging from early morning drills to 
preliminary match past. NYSC games have served the dual 
purpose of building strength and orchestrating unity among 
competitors and bequeathing necessary qualities and skills 
necessary for life. It creates an environment of unity of purpose 
and respect for others. Although it is compulsory for all corps 
members to participate in all the camping activities, there are 
some of them that are exempted, such as the physically 
challenged and pregnant women. In spite of the realities of their 
health however, concessions are still made for such people 60 
“under the mango tree” to passively participate in sporting 
activities by cheering the competitors. This is in recognition of 
the role of sports in heralding unity. This setting was not set sail 
to produce cheerleaders, but rather to facilitate the spirit of 
oneness as victory was not to be considered as an individual win, 
but as a collective victory for the platoon they represented. The 
indispensability of youths as agents of reconstruction and as 
bridges between cultures, coupled with their role as promoters 
57 th
National Youth Service Corps. 2017. “About the Scheme.” Accessed August 30 , 
2020.Https:/
/nysc.gov.ng/aboutscheme.html58
Hajia Aisha Mohammed. Assistant Director, Community Development Service. NYSC, Oyo th 
state. Interviewed on the 15 of August, 2020 at the CDS Office, Oyo state Secretariat, NYSC. 59
Hajia Aisha Mohammed. Assistant Director…60 
Architect Olanike Aduloju. Director, Porters' Touch Consultancy and Convener Save a st 
Prince(ss); a Non Governmental organization. Interviewed1 of August, 2029. at her 
residence; No 4, Bashorun Ogunmola Estate, Bodija, Ibadan, Oyo state.
NYSC AND SPORTS/GAMES ACTIVITIES IN NIGERIA SINCE 1973 407
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

of peace and intercultural understanding, influenced the age 
requirement placed on their mobilisation for the scheme which, 
in the first instance, affected Nigerians up to the age of 30 years 61
who have obtained their degrees in Nigerian universities .
An essential course of the NYSC scheme is the attendance of 
orientation camps for two to three weeks, which was a leveler 
and is usually coordinated by military officials in collaboration 
with NYSC officials in the states. The event usually pooled 
together youths from diverse cultures, religions and social 
backgrounds with the aims of equipping them mentally and 
physically, and also forging interrelationships through sports 
engagement, among other activities, in preparation for the 62
challenges of the service year and further . All these were 
targeted at pulling down walls of segregation and suspicion 
among the corps members and the nation at large. To set sail for 
an indispensable course for unity among the corps members 
from varying backgrounds and tertiary institutions, the Camp 
Commandant, through the platoon system, randomly divided 63
corps members into units of 1-10 . This division on the day of 
arrival in camp induced operation and friendliness among corps 
members of same platoon and same gestures were extended to 
others from counterpart platoons as they were all placed on the 64
same pedestal . Corps members engage in official activities in 
the camp from the platform of their platoons.
In similarity to the military morning exercise routines, corps
members were introduced to paramilitary early morning 
exercises, match pasts, with the immediate aim of not only 
instilling discipline and building up their perseverance, but also 
to awaken mental alertness, build up physical strength and 65 
foster unity The pattern of early morning routines in NYSC 
61 
National Archive , Ibadan. Daily sketch. Thursday May 24,1973, no. 2838 : 1.62 th 
NYSC Admin Structure. 2018. NYSC Year Book(45 Commemorative Edition): 23. 63 th 
DrTajudeenLasabi. Lecturer, Bowen University, Iwo, Osun State.Interviewed on the 16
of August, 2020 at History and International Studies Unit, Bowen University.64
DrMoradeyoAlabi. Medical director, Tobi Hospital, Stadium Complex, and Immediate th 
past Head of Family Medicine, University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital. Interviewed 29 of 
August, 2020 at No. 1, Talabi lane, Ibrahim Taiwo Road, Ilorin, Kwara State.65
Hajia Aisha Mohammed. Assistant Director…
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020408
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

camps have remained constant over the years with gradual 66
expansion of different sports engaged in over time. The wake 
up times and routines have remained unchanged over the years, 
except on Sundays when corps members are woken up at 5:00 
a.m. by the military bugle and are made to report on the parade 
ground kitted in their complete white vest, shorts and 67
boots/canvass . After a brief address/morning devotion, the 
morale of the corps members morale is motivated by military 
parade songs with lyrics such as if allawee no dey yawa go dey, if 
allawee no dey morale no go rise, corpers we-wa (meaning monthly 
allowance is the key to a high motivation). These songs usually 
ushered them to the camp fields where they were engaged in 
body exercises coordinated by army officials. Beyond the lyrics, 
the songs were targeted at familiarising the corps members with 
the various languages in which the songs were rendered, and 
their acceptance as camp wide morning motivational songs 
resonates across board. The morning drills have instilled 
discipline, confidence and pride of place in corps members.
66
Chief(Surv). OlapadeAkinbola. Chairman; Lekki Reality Nigeria Limited, and 
Managing Director Mutual Alliance Insurance Brokers Limited.Interviewed September nd
2 , 2020 at No. 1, Association Street, Association close, Ashi- Bodija, Ibadan, Oyo state.67
Hajia Aisha Mohammed…
NYSC AND SPORTS/GAMES ACTIVITIES IN NIGERIA SINCE 1973 409
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Fig. 27:  An Inter-platoon Match Past Competition in Abia state, 2016
th
Source: NYSC instagram page (nysc_ng). Retrieved August 29 , 2020.
In addition to the foregoing, different types of sports but with 
same patterns characterised the scheme's sporting 68
arrangements and activities between 1973 and 1994 . Against 
the background of early morning participation in sports in 
activities until 8:00a.m., the deliberate absence of official 
engagements gave corps members the freewill to participate in 
any desired games which ranged from volleyball, basketball, 69 
ping pong, lawn tennis and football. The atmosphere of 
tolerance, friendship and unity created by the NYSC initiated 
inter-platoon competitions even in the absence of official 
68
Chief (Surv). OlapadeAkinbola. Aged 65years. Chairman, Managing Director Lekki 
Realty Nigeria Limited and Chairman Mutual Alliance Insurance Brokers Limited. nd
Interviewed September 2 , 2020 at No. 1, Association Street, Association close, Ashi- 
Bodija, Ibadan, Oyo state.69 nd 
MrLanreOdumesi. Chief Executive Officer, Fort Credit Limited. Interviewed 2 of 
September, 2020 at No 12, Seye Nuga Estate, Bodija, Ibadan, Oyo state.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020410
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

70
organised games . Inter-platoon games have induced unity as 
members of the same team see participants from other platoons 
as opponent they must unite to win. Though those in the same 
team may have differences, such differences were overlooked 
for the common goal of winning. True sportsmanship was not 
about winning, but was rather about taking part and playing by 
the rules.
Fig. 28:  Lagos Camp Iyana-Ipaja Inter-Platoon Football Competition
th 
Source: NYSC Instagram page (nysc_ng). Retrieved 29 of 
August,2020.
The spirit of unity gradually pervading the Nigerian state 
inspired some corps members to take along with them to camps 
traditional game boards such as draft, as a tool of fostering 
interactions, friendships and connections among “strange bed 
70
DrTajudeenLasabi. Lecturer, Bowen University, Iwo, Osun State. Interviewed on the th 
16 of August, 2020 at History and International Studies Unit,..
NYSC AND SPORTS/GAMES ACTIVITIES IN NIGERIA SINCE 1973 411
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

71
fellows”, and by so doing, transcend divisions . Match past is an 
important sport activity that all corps members were required to 
actively or passively participate in. The parade tested the 
strength and agility of corps members that could be selected to 
participate in the actual parades of the official camp opening and 
camp closing. Essential to parades were the band group that 
consisted of corps members who knew how to drum, injecting 
rhythms, sound, life and coherence to parades. The band 
synergises their abilities to producing harmonious tunes. 
Oftentimes, limited knowledge is directly proportional to biased 
perception and uninformed stereotypes. Hence, the 
introduction of endurance trek which served the intents and 
purposes of injecting fun, excitement, environmental 
awareness, exposure to their host communities while building 
the physical strength, mental alertness and stamina of corps 72
members . The trek was usually made lively by the NYSC band 
that played beats and provided rhythms while in transit and at 
resting places. While fulfilling the obvious, it was an exercise (for 
those willing, since it was not compulsory) for determining 
tenacity, agility and, importantly, providing an intended 
atmosphere necessary for the sail of friendships and 
relationships that defied ethno-religious barriers.
Not only did the NYSC inculcate the virtues of partnership 
and cooperation among the corps members, the scheme also 
internalised these virtues by transforming cooperation policy to 
practicality in 1995 and making a change in the running of 
sporting activities in camp. In that year, it began officially to 
organise sporting events due to the need for change of the ,
procedure , and to partner with the Man O War, a paramilitary 
organisation, which eventually led to the introduction of Man O 73
War drills . The partnership between NYSC and this 
paramilitary organisation reduced the exclusive administration 
71 rd 
Miss Alabi, F. 2015/2016 Cross River corps member. Interviewed on the 3 of September, 
2020.72
Hajia Aisha Mohammed…73
Surveyor Martins Akin-Adeniran. Partner, Crystal Consulting, Samonda Ibadan. rd 
Interviewed 3 of September, 2020 at 1, Trinity Layout, Samonda, Ibadan, Oyo state.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020412
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

and supervision of sporting activities in camp by the Nigerian 
Army officials. However, the incorporation of Man O War drills 
in the camping activities helped to facilitate a collaboration 
between the Nigerian Army and the paramilitary organisation 
in offering selfless services to the rebuilding and sustenance of 
the unity of the country.
It is important to note that although these drills are not 
compulsory, willing participants are required to be in their full 
7/7 regalia (NYSC vest, khaki and Jungle boots). Besides testing 
and building physical strength, these drills are more of fun than 
being parade as different hurdles are usually set for the corps 
members to overcome, such as crawling through barb wires 
tunnels, suspended rope climbing, wall climbing, under the 74
supervision of the Man o War commanders . Participants were 
often cheered and jeered along, consequently boosting their self-
esteem, perseverance and social acceptance.
Fig. 29: A Female Corps Member on Course Man O' War Rope climbing 
drill in 7/7full Regalia
Source: NYSC Games Lagos Orientation Camp Instagram page. (nysc- th 
gàmes). Retrieved 29 of August 2020. 
74
Hajia Aisha Mohammed. Assistant Director, Community Development Service. NYSC, 
Oyo state. Interviewed on the 15th of August, 2020 at the CDS Office, Oyo state 
Secretariat, NYSC.
NYSC AND SPORTS/GAMES ACTIVITIES IN NIGERIA SINCE 1973 413
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC has been resourceful in responding to creativity and 
changing times as the game ranges in camps have gradually 
increased and responded to changing security circumstances 
and introduction of modern games that could further foster 
unity, healthy competition and tact among corps members. 
Apart from the major games examined, monopoly games, as 
well as martial arts, have been introduced as minors. As a policy, 
individual states are at liberty to adopt additional games that 75
could achieve the purpose of sports in the camp , hence the 
dissimilarities in some voluntary games across camps in the 
country. Monopoly is a real estate board game for two to 8 
players in which the players' goal is to remain financially solvent 
and force opponents into bankruptcy by buying and developing 
pieces of property. Each side of the board divided into 10 small 
rectangles representing specific properties such as railroads, 76
utilities and a host of others . This game has promoted bonding, 
interpersonal relationships, and boosted mental alertness, 
scrupulous calculation and, more importantly, financial 
intelligence as in the case of Lagos Camp in 2018 where it was 
deployed to teaching corps members the basics of financial 77
management .
The dilapidating security challenges of the country ranging 
from incessant kidnapping, gender violence, among others, and 
the indispensable role of personal security in these trying times 
have informed the introduction, into camp sporting activities, of 
martial arts training in 2012, organised by the Martial Arts and 
Self Defense Academy. The martial arts training was meant to 
train corps members in defense tactics for personal security and 
also instill in them a sense of discipline and confidence, while 
leaving their bodies  healthier  through  induced  weightless,  
75 th
Britannica. 2020. “Monopoly board games.” Accessed August 30 , 2020. https://www. 
Britannica.com.76 
Best Man Games. 2018. “Bestman games storms NYSC Lagos Orientation Camp with 
Financial Literac y”Accessed August 5, 2020. https://bestmangames .com/bestman-
games- tostirm-nysc-lagos-orientation-camp-with-financial -literacy/77 th 
Anon. 2012. “ NYSC to Train Corpers Martial Arts.” Accessed 30 of August, 2020. 
Https://www.google.com/amp/s/thebeatsonlinemag.wordpress.com/2013/03/22/
funny-reality- nysc-to-train-nysc-in-martial-arts/.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020414
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

healthier cardiovascular system, enhanced flexibility and body 78
coordination .
Apart from the regimented sports, social activities ranging 
from court games, cultural displays and so on were essential 
recreational varieties that reinforced the peaceful 
interrelationship that was being forged. These activities also 
practically projected unity in diversity. They are essential parts 
of conflict and conflict resolution mechanisms which are like 
underground rivers that run through lives and relationships, 
giving messages that shape perceptions, attributions and ideas 79 
of self and the others . They expose corps members and officials 
to the beauty, depth and wealth of other cultures which have 
displaced stereotyped perceptions and notions about others. A 
remarkable display is the carnival festival which displays the 
Nigerian cultures through traditional attires on platoon basis. 
Cultures to be represented are randomly assigned and platoon 
members that are part of the train would dress in the chosen 
culture pattern, synonymous with the culture they represent. 
This has facilitated cultural representation and showcased the 
beauty of the Nigerian cultures.
78 
Ralph Waldo Emerson. 2013. “The Role of Culture in Peace and Reconciliation.” t h
UNESCO High Level Discussion 2. 3. Accessed August 30 , 2020. 
https://www.unesco.org/new/fileadmin/Multimedia/hq/clt/images/peacereconcil
iation eng.pdf.79
Media Vision. 2017. “Fidelity NYSC Games.” Accessed August 6, 2020.https://media 
vision limited.com/fidelity-nysc-games/.
NYSC AND SPORTS/GAMES ACTIVITIES IN NIGERIA SINCE 1973 415
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Sports and its Socio-Cultural Impact
Fig. 30:  Carnival in Adamawa Camp in Damare Girie
Over the years, the government's initiative of promoting unity, 
integration and national cohesion through the NYSC which 
propagates the gospel of sporting activities as a tool to national 
cohesion has attracted the doting support and commitment of 
private individuals, corporate companies and institutions. 
These corporate companies and institutions have assiduously 
supported this course with sponsorship of games through 
undertaking financial expenditures, awarding of cash and 
noncash prizes to winners and the provision of sporting facilities 
in the various orientation camps across the federation. Notable 
among these sponsors over the years were Fidelity Bank through 80   
Fidelity NYSC games inaugurated in 2012, the Inter Platoon 
80
Alabi, Folusho Adewumi. 2018. “A History of Promasidor Nigeria, 1993-2017.” 
Masters diss., University of Ibadan.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020416
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Games (TIGA) sponsored by Wema Bank through its ALAT 
product and service, Ajuwaya.com.ng, Sports Station, Xright, 
Buzzy Body, London Professional Training Centre Nigeria, Just 
Travels and Tours Limited, Spar Nigeria, Beats FM, Promasidor 81 
through its Cowbell Chocolate product, Recycle NG, Premium 
Redd's, Guarantee Trust Bank, PharmaDeko through its Brett 
Mouth Wash, Sterling Bank, MTN Nigeria through MTN Pulse 
plan, Best man Games in collaboration with Leadway Assurance 
Limited, Airtel Nigeria,Infinixmobile, Merrybet Company, 
Naija FM, Nigeria Immigration Service ( Ibadan zone),Actors 
Guild of Nigeria (AGN), Tecno mobile, BrillaFm, Sports Station, 
Scout Boxx, Mansard Axa, Diamond/Access bank, Guarantee 82
Trust Bank, Dominos, United African Company (UAC) , among 
others.
Generally, competitive or very engaging sporting activities 
end as soon as the two or three weeks of NYSC orientation camp 
is over. However, it is important at this juncture to establish that 
the continued substance of sports is vital in view of its role in 
national integration cum nation building process. Without 
doubt, sports and the spirit of sportsmanship contribute to 
nation building as well as instill oneness and consciousness on 
individual and group basis, through Sports Community 
Development Service (CDS) Group and NYSC Band Cultural 
Group. The Sports CDS group is a special group of the 
Community Development Service charged with the 
responsibility of sustaining sporting activities, as their 
contribution to the development of their host states and the 
country at large. Membership of these units is subject to 
individuals' outstanding performances in sporting activities in 
camp across the different platoons. Against the background of 
platoon allegiance, their dedication is channeled to the team, 
hence fostering team spirit, bonding and, importantly, a 
81
Mr Eyitayo Adegbile. Lecturer, Department of Music, Bowen University, Iwo, Osun state. th 
Interviewed 18 of September, 2020 at the College of Communication Sciences, Bowen 
University, Iwo.82
NYSC. 2017. “A-Z of NYSC CDS.” Accessed .August 15, 2020. https://Nysc-cds.com/ cds-
clubs.
NYSC AND SPORTS/GAMES ACTIVITIES IN NIGERIA SINCE 1973 417
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

mutually shared goal of contributing their collective quotas to 
the development of Nigeria. Worthy of mention is the excellence 
criterion, devoid of ethno - religious prejudices or sentiments in 
the selection of members of these groups which comprises 
volleyball, football and athletics competitors.
Sports CDS is the official sports representative of the host 
state in NYSC related competitions. Their services through this 
platform have de-emphasised ethnic affiliations, state of origin 
loyalty, and rather focused gaze on the collective prosperity of 
the Nigerian state. Through the creation of recreation avenues 
and healthy rivalries among corps members and the 
communities they serve, there have been arousal of healthy 
living consciousness, purposeful lifestyle and the identification 83
and training of talents among corps members . Providing 
rhythm, vigor and melody to the NYSC programs outside the 
camp is the band and cultural group. They produce melodious 
tunes from various songs, coordinated dance steps, showcasing 
the beauty and vibrancy of the power of unity in productive 
efforts.
83
NYSC. 2018. “NYSC Programs and Activities: Sports and Cultural Festival.”NYSC Year th 
Book, 45 Commemorative Edition: 40.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020418
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Fig. 31: NYSC Katsina Band playing at an NYSC function in 2016
th
Source: NYSC instagram page (nysc_ng). Retrieved August 29 , 2020
The deployment of sports as a means of enhancing unity 
transcended from local visions to a national goal with expanded 
participation, prospects of unity and integration on a wider 
scale. The management in its effort to further enhance the noble 
objectives of the scheme instituted an annual National Sports 
and Cultural Festival which brings together talented corps 
members from the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory to 
compete in track and field events, notably football for males, 
volleyball for females, 4×100 meters relay races, and 100metre 
dash for both genders. The cultural competition segment 
comprises drama, cultural dance and standup comedy 84
competitions . The festival in zonal and national categories has, 
to all intents and purposes, foster common ties of friendships 
among competitors and spectators with various ethnic origins 
84
NYSC. 2018. “Milestones in NYSC Progression. Dance, Drama and Sports 
Development.” NYSC Year Book, 45th Commemoration: 27
NYSC AND SPORTS/GAMES ACTIVITIES IN NIGERIA SINCE 1973 419
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

85
serving in the various states . This has potential to expose all to 
the beauty of the Nigerian cultures, hence inducing appreciation 
and acceptance of diversity.
The use of sports as a means of building trust, promoting 
friendships and unity that defies perceptions and stereotypes, 
has extended to the general public through the NYSC platform, 
hence the need to continually project the scheme as essential 
necessity in the pursuit and sustenance of unity and integration 
in the Nigerian polity. In facilitating physical fitness, cordiality 
and in serving as a leveler between the military and the NYSC 
outside the camp, friendly matches have been organised. In 
attestation to this, in 2016, a friendly match was played between 
the Kano Nigerian Air Force Football Club and the NYSC Kano 
Football team on the Nigerian Air Force Base pitch in Kano State 86
with 50 spectators . The platform placed both clubs on the equal 
pedestal of playing by the rules, emphasising the equality of 
Nigerians regardless of discipline or occupation. Besides civil-
military partnership, corps members have also demonstrated 
their commitment to sowing seeds of cooperation and unity 
among students as part of their contributions to the nation, 
through competitions on testing for parade knowledge, match 
past in slow and quick times, and band performances. The NYSC 
Band CDS group of Niger State in 2019 organised Children's Day 
interschool parade competition for secondary schools in Minna, 87
held at the Police Training School
Apart from promoting sporting activities among corps 
members, the NYSC has demonstrated commitment to 
heralding integration, physical health and facilitating inter-
governmental organisational cooperation and unity by 
participating in sporting activities for all its benefits. In 2013, the 
85
Kano Editorial Corpers. “NYSC FC Kano Stands their Ground against Nigerian 
A i r f F o r c e ( N A F )  K a n o .  A c c e s s e d  A u g u s t  2 0 ,  2 0 2 0 . h t t p s : / /  
amp/s/zakeko.wordpress.com/2016/11/23/ nysc-fc-kano-stands-their-groud-against-
nigerian-airforce-NAF-Kano-/.86
Akinfolajimi, Y.G. 2019.” Niger Band CDS Organizes Children's Day Parade Competition 
for Secondary Schools in Minna.” Niger Kopa, June/July:11.87
Hajia Aisha Mohammed. Assistant Director, Community Development Service. NYSC, Oyo 
State. Interviewed on the 15th of August, 2020 at the CDS Office, Oyo state Secretariat, NYSC.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020420
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

scheme participated in the Nigerian Public Service Games held 88
in Makurdi, Benue State . The importance of intergovernmental 
commission competition as a means of promoting better 
understanding and unity cannot be over stressed. This is 
because of its strategic importance in promoting interactions 
and the true spirit of sportsmanship, which is not in winning the 
games per se, but in taking part and playing the games by the 
rules.
The use of sports as a means of enhancing unity and national 
integration has not only been impactful, but has also recorded 
far reaching achievements both at the individual and corporate 
levels. At the individual level, in the face of a dilapidated 
security architecture and apparatuses as evident from the 
geometrical rise in crime and criminal activities, the scheme has 
been and is still empowering corps members, through martial 
arts, with crime combating skills necessary for their defense. The 
high rates of kidnapping and rape, among other crimes, have 
made the issue of security and defense indispensable to both 
individuals and the society at large. The martial arts equip its 
subscribers with security trainings necessary for their physical 
and mental safety. The training has bequeathed defense skills, 
emotional intelligence to its trainees, a necessary skill to 
performing in the corporate world. It is a truism that sports has 
instilled discipline and perseverance among corps members, 
which are virtues necessary for the service year and post NYSC 
years. The lights out time of 11 p.m. and wakeup call of 5a.m. 
(with possible punishment for defaulters) have created 
consistency in the corpse members' daily routines, such as 
transformed sleeping, rising and living patterns. This change in 
their routine has also boosted their overall wellbeing and 
productivity. Through the various tasks such as parades in 
which the corps members are required to be under the rain or 
shine for as long as the parade lasted, Man o War drills through 
which the will to persevere regardless of stress or pressure is 
88
National Archive, Ibadan. Daily sketch. Thursday May 24,1973, nos. 2838 :
NYSC AND SPORTS/GAMES ACTIVITIES IN NIGERIA SINCE 1973 421
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

instilled, corps members have been exposed to the world of real 
experience which is different from their experiences at school. 
These tasks expose them to experiences that teach perseverance 
as the key to success. The daily exercises have resulted in 
physical fitness through the burning of excess fat, especially 
during the weeks of orientation. Through sports, the NYSC, 
among other things, has inculcated discipline in Nigerian 
youths by instilling in them a tradition/virtue of industry at 
work and of patriotic and loyal service to the nation in any 89
situation they find themselves . Needless to state that since the 
service year is a physically and mentally demanding phase of 
their lives,sports has become a requisite for every medically fit 
corps members.
Team spirit is an indispensable  quality  necessary for 
performance in the workplace and corps members gain this 
through their participation in sporting activities, both within 
and outside the camps. Through inter-platoon competitions 
which pull together people of diverse ethno-religious 
backgrounds to achieve the singular purpose of winning and 
projecting the platoons, a team spirit of trust and unity of 
purpose is upheld because success is projected in this way as 
collective, thus de-emphasising ethno- religious differences for 
the collective good. This disposition empowers participants to 
effectively cope with individual shortcomings, avoid pursuing 
cross purpose agendas at workplace, and also induces 
cooperation for the fulfillment of task and achievement of 
company goals and objectives.
Another resounding achievement of NYSC games is the 
discovery and projection of outstanding talents on national and 
international stages. The scheme has provided a platform for 
corps members to showcase their talents, particularly in the 
orientation camps, through exceptional performances usually 90
on the platoon levels . Through commendable performances, 
exceptional corpse members  are identified and posted to sports 
89
Hajia Aisha Mohammed. Assistant Director, Community Development Service. NYSC…90
Hajia Aisha Mohammed. Assistant Director, Community Development Service. NYSC…
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020422
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

related places for their primary assignment, and are assigned to 
the sports CDS group, from where they represent their 
mobilised states on the national stage. For example, in Oyo State, 
some outstanding football players of the scheme have been 
signed onto the Shooting Stars Football Club (3sc) on accounts of 91
their impressive football outings against the 3sc . Some have 
been appointed as members of the state sports referees, while 92 
some have been signed onto international football clubs and 
national team. For example, an exceptional corps member was 
discovered during a football match in 2013 at the National Sports 
Festival and subsequently invited to the national team camp of 93
the Super Eagles . The discovery of talented corps members that 
could play the drum formed the basis of the formation of the 
NYSC Band group that was hitherto filled by hiring the Nigerian 94
Police band .
More so, games have equipped corps members with critical 
life skills such as money management and financial intelligence. 
Through monopoly games played in camp, young graduates are 
equipped with tactical financial skills of saving, investing, 
borrowing, insurance, taxation and entrepreneurship critical for 
a financially responsible life.
NYSC games have also proved advantageous on national 
and corporate levels. For example, the games have created 
cordial relationships between corps members, military 
personnel/ paramilitary agencies and the larger community. 
Also, there is partnership between the Nigerian Army and the 
NYSC in the administration of orientation camps. Moreover, the 
monitoring and taking oversight duties of soldiers in the 
administration of sporting activities have further deepened 
cordiality between both bodies and corps members, 
consequently eliminating military/civilian tension. Worthy of 
91
Hajia Aisha Mohammed. Assistant Director, Community Development Service. NYSC… 92
NYSC. 2018. “Milestones in NYSC Progression. Dance, Drama and Sports Development.” 
NYSC Year Book,45th Commemoration: 2793
Hajia Aisha Mohammed. Assistant Director, Community Development Service. NYSC… 94
Lagos Post. 2012. “Promasidor Sponsors Lagos – NYSC Volley Ball Competition.” Accessed th 
28 of August, 2020. https://lagospostng.com/promasidor-sponsors-lagos-nysc-volleyball- 
competition.
NYSC AND SPORTS/GAMES ACTIVITIES IN NIGERIA SINCE 1973 423
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

mention is the fact that these nonviolent interactions have 
induced emotional attachments and ultimately resulted in 
marital relationships. For example, in 2019, it was popularly 
circulated with pictures as proof of an EbonyiCorper who 
proposed marriage to a soldier in camp. Paramilitary agencies 
such as the Man O War have built productive relationships with 
the scheme through sports. These relationships and cooperation 
have further projected the relevance of these agencies to nation 
building.
Furthermore, seeds of hostile and discriminatory intergroup 
relations planted and nurtured by colonial divisive policies have 
been gradually ameliorated and replaced by peaceful 
interactions facilitated by sports. Nigeria is a country whose 
history since colonialism has been spiced by intense ethno-
religious loyalty and suspicion, a contrasting distance to the pre-
colonial relations of states and empires. The warped loyalty and 
suspicion laid the solid foundation for the outbreak of the major 
pogrom few years after Nigerian independence. In reversing the 
negative curve, the NYSC was created to facilitate intergroup 
relations, national cohesion and integration. Various NYSC 
activities, notably sports, have been tailored to achieving these 
goals. The random non selective division of corps members into 
platoons and their requirement in sports participation have 
provided perfect friendly atmosphere for intergroup relations. 
The desire to win in competitions have pooled corps members 
together, de-emphasised differences and induced a team spirit 
to achieving tasks. Through the sports festival, participants have 
been exposed to the wealth and beauty of Nigerian cultures, 
thereby invoking appreciation and respect for tradition. Worthy 
of mention is the fact that competitors at the festival do not 
represent their states of origin, rather the states they are 
deplored, hence de-emphasising ethnic loyalty. The melodious 
united beats and rhythms played by the Band group of diverse 
backgrounds resounds the unity that can be achieved when 
there is unity of purpose. 
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020424
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Also, the achievement of public private partnership 
dedicated to the pursuit and unification of the nation has been 
made possible through sports. Various individuals and 
corporate bodies have expressed and displayed commitments to 
the unity of Nigeria through their sponsorships of sporting 
competitions both within and outside the camps. This 
cooperation has made the unification of the nation a collective 
task that requires the commitment of all and sundry. These 
corporate social responsibilities have not only projected their 
brands, but have also promoted their continuous existence and 
thriving in the Nigerian market place.
In addition, NYSC sports have facilitated the improvement 
of the nation's infrastructural facilities. As documented above, 
private partnerships have achieved the deployment of 
individual and corporate resources to infrastructural 
development of orientation camps and the country at large. In 
promoting the spirit of team work and healthy competition in 
volley ball, Promasidor Nigeria, the makers of Cowbell milk 
under the Cowbell Chocolate brand, began the National Youth 
Service Corps Cowbell inter-platoon volley ball contest in 2012. 
It is a competition that has been consistently sponsored by 
Cowbell Chocolate for female Youth corps members. This 
competition is organised only in Lagos during the compulsory 
orientation. The aim of the initiative is to ignite the sporting skills 
of corps members as well as source for talents that could 
represent Lagos State and the nation at international events. 
Besides the sponsorship, the company also rewards the winners st nd rd 
with #30,000, #20,000 and #10,000 for the 1 , 2 , and 3 positions 95
respectively, amidst other consolation prizes from raffle draws . 
The company, however, did not stop at kick starting the 
competition, it also provided facilities for the same course with 
the donation of a volleyball court to the Lagos Orientation Camp 
in 2012. Worthy of commendation is the role played by a former 
corps member Omoruyi Esenosarumsa Favour with call up 
number RV/16B/1780 in the promotion of sports in Rivers State. 
95
NYSC. 2018. “Rivers State NYSC achievement.” NYSC Year Book, 45th Commemoration: 269.
NYSC AND SPORTS/GAMES ACTIVITIES IN NIGERIA SINCE 1973 425
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

As her individual community development project, the corps 
member during her service year constructed a volleyball court 
and established a volleyball team in KNC Buguma in Asari.Toru 96
Local Government .
Conclusion
From the foregoing, the feeling of nationalism is indispensable 
to the process of nation building and sports have created a path 
for its actualisation through binding people, helping to develop 
a feeling of patriotism and unity that can be potently used to 
counter internal agitations and separation calls. On the copious 
instances of bonding the pre-colonial people and a proof of the 
one human entity, its adoption as a strategy to unify Nigerians, 
not only by the NYSC but also a national agenda, has built a 
sense of purpose and national pride, and proven to be veritable 
and dependable in the forging of solidarity among the Nigerian 
peoples. Sports is a means of building up the youths who make 
up the most vibrant population, who would in turn build the 
nation through their acquired capacities in various sectors, and 
fast track the country's achievement of Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDG), such as Good Health and Wellbeing, 
Gender Equality, Sustainable Cities, Communities and strong 
Institutions.
The familiarisation of Nigerian youths with sporting 
activities has helped to build and define their characters and that 
of the nation at large. Participation in sporting activities are 
bounded by rules such as teamwork, dedication, 
sportsmanship, discipline and a host of other qualities that have 
exceeded being official criteria, and have rather become 
internalised in the participants as lifelong qualities. In addition 
to individual advantages accrued from sports, its impact on the 
development of Nigeria has led to the emergence of 
public/private partnership most especially in the area of 
building of sporting infrastructures. In all, it could be argued 
that since 1973, the impact of NYSC Sports on the social 
integration ofthe youths in particular and national cohesion in 
general cannot be over- emphasised.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020426
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

References 
Primary Sources 
Books
Achebe, C. 2012. There was a Country. A Personal History of 
Biafra.Britain: Clay's Limited, St Ives plc.
Alabi, Folusho Adewumi. 2018. “A History of Promasidor 
Nigeria, 1993-2017.” Masters diss., University of Ibadan.
Obasa, O. 2015.” Sports and the Modernity of Leisure in Nigeria: 
Stadium Space and the Symbolisms of Expressions, 1930- 
1980.” Unpublished Ph.D Thesis submitted to the 
Univesity of Texas at Austin. 1.
Bashir, S. 2015. “The Impact of the Nigerian Army on the 
Development of Sports in Nigeria.” A Msc Thesis 
submitted to the Postgraduate School, Ahmadu Bello 
University, Zaria, Nigeria. 31.
Official Documents
Kano Editorial Corpers. “NYSC FC Kano Stands their Ground 
against Nigerian AirfForce(NAF) Kano.”Accessed August 
2 0 ,  2 0 2 0 . h t t p s : / /  
amp/s/zakeko.wordpress.com/2016/11/ 23/nysc-fc-
kano-stands-their-groud-against-nigerian- airforce-NAF-
Kano-/.
National Youth Service Corps. 2017. “About the 
S c h e m e . ” . A c c e s s e d  A u g u s t  3 0 ,  
2020.https://nysc.gov.ng/about scheme.html.
th 
NYSC Year Book 2018 (45 Commemorative Edition)
NYSC. 2017. “A-Z of NYSC CDS.” Accessed .August 15, 
2020.https://Nysc-cds.com/cds-clubs
NYSC: Niger Kopa, June/July
Ralph Waldo Emerson. 2013. “The Role of Culture in Peace and 
Reconciliation.” UNESCO High Level Discussion 2. 3. 
th
Accessed August 30 , 2020. https://www.unesco.org/n e 
NYSC AND SPORTS/GAMES ACTIVITIES IN NIGERIA SINCE 1973 427
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

w / f i l e a d m i n / M u l t i m e d i a / h q / c l t / i m a g e s / 
peacereconciliation eng.pdf.
Private Interviews
Architect Olanike Aduloju. Director, Porters' Touch 
Consultancy and Convener Save a Prince(ss); a Non 
st 
Governmental organization. Interviewed1 of August, 
2029. at her residence; No 4, BashorunOgunmola Estate, 
Bodija, Ibadan, Oyo state.
Chief (Surv). OlapadeAkinbola. Aged 65years. Chairman, 
Managing Director Lekki Realty Nigeria Limited and 
Chairman Mutual Alliance Insurance Brokers Limited. 
nd
Interviewed September 2 , 2020 at No. 1, Association 
Street, Association close, Ashi- Bodija, Ibadan, Oyo state.
Dr Moradeyo Alabi. Medical director, Tobi Hospital, Stadium 
Complex, and Immediate past Head of Family Medicine, 
th 
University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital. Interviewed 29 of 
August, 2020 at No. 1, Talabi lane, Ibrahim Taiwo Road, 
Ilorin, Kwara State.
Dr Tajudeen Lasabi. Lecturer, Bowen University, Iwo, Osun 
th 
State.Interviewed on the 16 of August, 2020 at History and 
International Studies Unit, Bowen University.
Miss Alabi, F. 2015/2016 Cross River corps member. 
rd 
Interviewed 3 of September,2020.
Mr Eyitayo Adegbile. Lecturer, Department of Music, Bowen 
th 
University, Iwo, Osun state. Interviewed 18 of September, 
2020 at the College of Communication Sciences, Bowen 
University, Iwo.
Mr Lanre Odumesi. Chief Executive Officer, Fort Credit Limited. 
nd 
Interviewed 2 of September, 2020 at No 12, SeyeNuga 
Estate, Bodija, Ibadan, Oyo state.
Onumonu,U. Department of History and International Studies, 
th 
Adeleke University, Ede, Osun state. Interviewed on 14 of 
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020428
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

August, 2020.Surveyor Martins Akin-Adeniran. Partner, 
rd 
Crystal Consulting, Samonda Ibadan. Interviewed 3 of 
September, 2020 at 1, Trinity Layout, Saminda, Ibadan, 
Oyo state
Archival Document
Thursday May 24,1973. Daily sketch.No. 2838. National Archive , 
Ibadan: 1.
Secondary Sources
Journals
Awoyinfa, J& A. Oladipo. 2016. “The Contribution of Sports, 
Physical Education and Recreational Indices in Promoting 
Health and Peace among the Youth in Nigeria.” Literacy 
Information and Computer Education Journal(LICEJ), nos.3: 
2355 Akanbi, T.2014. “The Moral Value of Yoruba 
Moonlight Tales”
Open Journal of Modern Logistics4: 481-486.
Aremu, J.O and L.O Buhari. 2017. “Sense and Senselessness of 
war: Aggregating the causes, gains and losses of the 
Nigerian Civil War, 1967-1970.” AFOR Journal of Arts and 
Humanities4, Special Issue: 63.
Christopher, A.J. 1988. “Divide and Rule: The Impress of British 
Separation Policies.”AREA 20, no. 3: 233.
Ezenwoko,F& J. Osagie. 2014. “Conflict and Conflict Resolution 
in Pre-Colonial Igbo Society of Nigeria.” Journal of Studies 
in Social Science 9,nos 1: 125-139.
Maaoud,R& Day-Stirk,F. 2014. “Improving Health Worker 
Productivity and Performance in the Context of Universal 
Health Coverage: The Roles of Standards, Quality 
Improvement, and Regulation-Finl Draft. Technical 
Working Group(TWG)7: 3
Mangan,J. 2000. “Athleticism in the Victorian and Edwardian 
NYSC AND SPORTS/GAMES ACTIVITIES IN NIGERIA SINCE 1973 429
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Public School.”London:Frank Cass.
Nakou, S.A. 2012. “Cultural practice and Social Initiation in Sub- 
Saharan Africa: The Culture of Flogging in Barugube 
Fulaniof Benin.”Higher Education of Social Science 3, nos 3: 
50-57.
Okeke, C, Ibenwa, C& G. Okeke. 2017. “ Conflicts between 
African Traditional Religion and Christianity in Eastern 
Nigeria: The Igbo Example.” SAGE Open April-June:4.
Onuoha, C. 2016. “The Nigerian Civil War: A Historical 
Interpretation.” Pyrex Journal of African Studies and 
Development2, no 4: 29.
Jaiyesimi,B, J. Babalola& T. Bamitale. 2016. “ Critical Review of 
Sports as a Catalyst for Peace and Development in 
th 
Nigeria.” 11 UNILAG Annual Research Conference and Fair 
11:2.
Books
Iwuchukwu, M. 2013. Colonial Northern Nigeria and the Politics of 
Muslim-Christian Relations.Muslim-Christian Dialogue in 
Post Colonial Northern Nigeria. New York: Palgrave 
Macmillian.
Poliakoff, M.B. 1987. CombatSports in the Ancient World: 
Competition, Violence and Culture. New Haven, CT:Yale 
University Press.
Internet records
Ahmad, R. 2018. “Ijakadi: Offa's Big Wrestling Festival.” Daily 
th, 
Trust Online January Edition .Accessed August 20 2020. 
D.ailytrust.com/ijakadi-offas-big-wrestling-festival/
Aiyegbayo, O. The Story of the 1949 Nigerian Football Team's 
th
UK Tour. Uploaded August 6, 2016. Accessed August 30 , 
2020. https://www.horebinternational.com/the-story-of 
-the- 1949- nigerian-football-teams-uk-tour/
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020430
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Anon. 2016.” Traditional Wrestling in Igbo Land.” Uploaded 
June 5,2016. Accessed August 29, 2020. https:// 
www.movenaija.org/traditional-wrestling-in-igbo-land/
Anon. 1998.The Intersection of Sports and Politics in the Pre- 
colonial and Colonial Period. Sports and Politics in British 
th 
West/Central Africa. Accessed 5 September, 2020 from 
laghanatogoboutsport.weebly.com
Anon. 2012. “ NYSC to Train Corpers Martial Arts.” Accessed 
t h  
3 0 o f  A u g u s t ,  2 0 2 0 .  
Https://www.google.com/amp/s/thebeatsonlinemag.
wordpress.com/2013/03/22/funny- reality-nysc-to-
train-nysc-in-martial-arts/
Atisu.2012. “9 Traditional African Sports that Survived 
Colonialism.”.Uploaded July 19, 2019.Accessed July 25, 
2020. Https://face to face africa.com/article/9-traditional
-african-sports-that-survived-colonialism/3
Bellis, M. 2019. “ ABrief History of Sports.” ThoughtCo, Sept 12, 
2020. https://thoughtco.com/history-of-sports-1992447.
Britannica. 2020. “Monopoly board games.” Accessed August 
th
30 , 2020. https://www. Britannica.com. /
Lagos Post. 2012. “Promasidor Sponsors Lagos – NYSC Volley 
th 
Ball Competition.” Accessed 28 of August, 2020. https:/
/lagospostng.com/promasidor-sponsors-lagos-nysc- 
volleyball-competition
Media Vision. 2017. “Fidelity NYSC Games.” Accessed August 
6, 2020.https://media vision limited.com/fidelity-nysc- 
games/.
Oyo State Government Sports Page. 2020. Shooting Stars Football 
th 
Club. Accessed 28 of November, 2020. Oyostate.gov.ng/ 
shooting-stars-sports-club/
Umenze, Albert. Traditional wrestling in Igbo land.Retrieved 
th
July 27 , 2020 from www.movenaija .org.
NYSC AND SPORTS/GAMES ACTIVITIES IN NIGERIA SINCE 1973 431
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Wiebe, B. “A Story of Heroes and Epics: The story of Football in 
Nigeria.” Business Day Online. Uploaded June 7,2018. 
th 
Accessed 29 of August,2020. www.google.com/amp/s/ 
businessday.ng/arts-bdlife-arts/article/story-heroes-
epics- story-football-nigeria/amp/
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020432
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Chapter Fourteen
THE NATURE AND IMPACT OF NATIONAL 
YOUTH SERVICE CORPS ORIENTATION 
CAMPS
Kenneth T. Azaigba
Department of History and International Studies, 
Federal University Dutsin-Ma,
Katsina State
Introduction
National Youth Service Corps Orientation camps provide 
ground for the actualisation of a core flagship programme of the 
NYSC scheme, which is the orientation course. The course is a 
foundational subset and one amongst three other cardinal 
programmes namely; primary assignment, community 
development service and winding-up/passing–out 
programme. Every State of the federation houses an orientation 
camp, where induction into the ethos of the NYSC scheme is 
done and which lasts for twenty-one days (that is, three weeks). 
The core essence of the camp programme is to promote social 
integration and build trans-ethnic consciousness amongst 
Nigerian graduate youths. The NYSC orientation programme is 
therefore couched to arrest the dysfunction in nation-building 
and as well shift attention of the Nigerian graduate youths away 
from white collar jobs through entrepreneurial skills acquisition. 
These constitute the objectives of the NYSC scheme. The camps 
are structured points where the ideals of national integration, 
character development and patriotism are nurtured towards 
building bridges across cultural and ideological divides.
The centrality of the camps in the overall attempt at retooling 
youths for national service undergird the series of training 
courses meant to reshape perceptions and expectations as well 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

as instillwork ethics for not just self but national development. 
The extent to which these lofty ideals have been met continues to 
elicit intellection on various segments of the scheme. But not 
much attention has been placed on the very strategic value of 
camps. It is against this backdrop that this chapter particularly 
emphasizes the role of camps in the NYSC scheme using majorly 
primary sources.
For ease of analysis, the chapter is sectionalised. The first 
section is introduction. The second section explains the idea and 
utilitarian value of NYSC orientation camps while the third 
section isolates camp activities and dilates their specific 
functionality. The fourth section centres on the impact of camp 
activities on corps members and their environs. The fifth section 
highlights the core constraints diminishing the full realisation of 
the objectives of the NYSC orientation programme. The 
concluding remarks are presented in the sixth section.
The Idea and Utilitarian Value of NYSC Orientation Camps
To properly contexualise the discourse, it is imperative to first 
explicate on what a camp is and then explain the sense in which 
NYSC orientation camps are being referenced. A camp, as an 
operational concept, is not easy to define. This is because the 
concept has multifaceted dimensions. For instance, there are 
camps for refugees, semi-carceral institutions, like migration 
detention centres, protest camps, there are also summer camps 
and so on. Nevertheless, Minca, provides a broad definition: he 
sees a camp “as a temporary confined space, characterized by an 
exceptional and ambiguous status between exclusion and 
protection”. Though the definition harps on the fundamental 
essentials of a camp, it does not adequately dilate on the 
multifaceted dynamics. For camps differ in a number of aspects. 
Migration camps, for example, are a form of forced segregation 
while gated communities are represented as needing protection. 
These dynamics also shape the duration of camps. For our 
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020434
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

purpose, the concern is on youth camps. Myles Lynch, et al, has 
provided an incisive perspective that assists our knowledge of 
youth camps. They argue that the traditional school settings, in 
which high stakes testing, standardization, and rote 
memorization are favoured, are not effectively preparing youth 
to develop their own creativity which is a key component for 
21century problem solving. Therefore, youth camps may 
provide an optimal, out of school, informal educational option 
for youth to enhance and develop their own creativity. Other 
studies have affirmed the positivity of youth camps and 
identified outcomes such as, development of friendship skills, 
improved positive identity, increased self-skills, increased self-
esteem, thoughtful decision making and the ability to forge 
productive human relations. In this discourse, a youth camp is 
conceptualised as a demarcated space specifically set out to 
induct youths on the essentials of social cohesion, work ethics, 
civic maturation and societal development. In the specific 
context of the NYSC, the orientation camp is a paramilitary 
setting where graduate youths are inducted on a broad spectrum 
of civic ideals and self- development skills to help them optimize 
their potentials for self and national development.
The idea of organising orientation camps for Nigerian 
graduates of tertiary institutions both in Nigeria and abroad, 
who are deemed to be worthy in character and learning and have 
met the requirements for graduation as set out by the senate or 
academic board of such institutions is founded on some basic 
historical circumstances and the need to achieve some 
developmental objectives. At inception in 1973/1974, graduates 
from six feeraal universities and their affiliates were eligible for 
the one-year service. By 1975/1976 Decree No: 24 allowed 
eligible foreign Nigeran graduates who graduated in 1973/1974 
and foreign graduates who graduated in 1973/1974 were 
allowed to participate. In 1976/1977 and 1977/1978 Nigerian 
graduates of HND.NCE fro 1975/1976 session were eligible 
until 1985 when Decree No. 21 of 1985 removed holders of NCE 
THE NATURE AND IMPACT OF NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS ORIENTATION CAMPS 435
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

1 
from participating in the NYSC Orientation service.
It is worth noting that, the scheme was put together as a 
subset of the three (3) Rs: Reconciliation, Reconstruction and 
Rehabilitation of General Yakubu Gowon's attempt at putting 
the country together after the end of the civil war, which lasted 2
between 1967 and 1970 . The need to design a programme 
geared towards promoting national unity, healthy inter-group 
relations and cooperation among Nigerian youths in particular 
and Nigerian peoples in general based in consequences of the 
civil war necessitated the introduction of the 3R. Thus, the NYSC 
scheme was initially primarily targeted at promoting national 
unity and integration. However, overtime, the NYSC scheme 
assumed multiple mandates with main focus on youth 
development, national integration and development. These 
focus areas were shaped by the enabling laws of 1983, 1993, 1999 
and 2000. The main objectives of the NYSC scheme are as 
follows;
1. Inculcate discipline in Nigerian youths by instigating in 
them a tradition of industry at work and of patriotic and 
loyal service to the nation in any situation they find 
themselves;
2. Raise the moral of our youth by giving them the opportunity 
to learn about higher ideals of national achievement, social 
and cultural improvement;
3. Develop in the Nigerian youths the attitudes of mind 
acquired through shared experience and suitable training, 
which will make them more amenable to mobilization in the 
national interest;
4. Enable Nigerian youths acquire the spirit of self-reliance by 
encouraging them to develop skills for self-employment,
5. Contribute to accelerated growth of the national economy;
6. Develop common ties among the Nigerian youths and 
promote national unity and integration; 
1
See NYSC (2014) NYSC Magazine, The Journal of NYSC Directorate Headquarters , Abuja: 
National Youth Service Corps Service2 
Tyoden has articulated the thinking behind the Rs. For details see, Sonni Gwanle st 
Tyoden (1995) Nigeria: Youth Agenda for the 21 century, Ibadan: Sibon Books Limited
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020436
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

7. Remove prejudices, eliminate ignorance and confirm at first 
hand the many similarities among Nigerians of all ethnic 
groups; and
8. Develop a sense of cooperate existence and common destiny 3
of the people of Nigeria . In order to realise the above 
objectives, four programmes were rolled out to give 
meaning to the mandate namely; mobilisaation/orientation, 
primary assignment, community development service and 
winding-up/passing out. Of these programmes, 
mobilisation/orientation is the first and foundational 
programme meant to strategically provide orientation 
courses on a wide range of training themes that are planned 
and placed under defined time frames. NYSC camps are 
therefore centres where these activities take place. In simple 
terms, an NYSC camp is a paramilitary setting where virtues 
of discipline and resilience are inculcated under a command 
structure. Sequel to mobilisation and deployment to 
different States for national service, corps members are 
required to undergo a 21-day orientation course in a 
designated NYSC camp.
The orientation programme takes place simultaneously in 
all NYSC camps across the country and is formulated to 
fulfill the following objectives:
(a) To give corps members a better understanding and 
appreciation of the scheme.
(b) To familiarise corps members with the environment in their 
place of posting.
(c) To toughen and prepare corps members physically and 
mentally for the task ahead.
(d) To equip corps members with practical social and leadership 
skills that will enable them meet the challenges of the service 
3
See, NYSC (1983) Summative Evaluation Report of Ten Years of the National Youth Service Corps 
in Nigeria, Lagos: Directorate of the National Youth Service Corps, these objectives are well 
expressed in the following documents, NYSC (1993) National Youth Service Corps Decree 
no.51. of 1993. Abuja: National Youth Service Corps Service, Nigeria, NYSC (1999) National 
Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Handbook, Abuja, NYSC, NYSC (2004) The National Youth Service 
Corps (NYSC) ACT. CAP N84 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, Abuja: National Youth Service 
Corps Service, Nigeria.
THE NATURE AND IMPACT OF NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS ORIENTATION CAMPS 437
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

4
year and the nation in future .
(e) To enable corps members imbibe the culture of 
professionalism and self reliance
These objectives are quite ambitious and merit further 
elucidation on the underlying ideation. The fact that youth 
graduates of tertiary institutions are selected for camping 
bespeak the belief that youths are change agents and therefore 
need to play a pivotal role in forging national unity and 
cohesion. The desire to get this set of youths armed with tertiary 
education, vim and idealism to spin national consciousness that 
transcends primordial boundaries or ethnic cocoons is not only 
thoughtful but well-placed. It suffices to espouse that the 
emphasis on youths as change agents derive much impetus from 
the understanding that youths are products of modernity and 5
objects of pedagogical and psychological expertise . This 
conceptualisation of youth reveals two set roles: a stage model of 
individual development and an element of social integration 
processes. Youth corps members are imaged as shapeable 
objects, with the demand for an unproblematic integration into 
adult society. The belief that pedagogy and education direct the 
individual through a process of cultural and civic maturation 
which complements the biological development of a human 6 
being underscores the choice of this demographic group.
The idea of organising orientation for corps members is to 
ensure that corps members are grounded in the basic rudiments 
of the scheme as enunciated earlier. Consequently, corps 
members are orientated through language seminars, socio-
cultural and traditional lectures, development workshops, 
career mentoring programmes,  religious  activities,  skill  
acquisition and entrepreneurship development programmes as 
4   
NYSC (2011) National Youth Service Corps: General Policy Guidelines for Orientation 
Courses,
Abuja: Planning Research and Statistics Department, NYSC.5 
Arnett, J. J. (2007) “Emerging Adulthood: What is it, and what is it good for?” Child 
Development Perspectives, Vol. 1 (2), P.68-726    
Ansell, N. (2005) Children, Youth and Development, Routledge Perspectives on Development,
Oxon: Routledge.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020438
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

7
well as Man-O- War paramilitary training . The expected 
outcomes of participating in these activities are: to increase self-
discipline and opportunity for inter-ethnic interaction, reduce 
fear of the unknown, enhance knowledge of the country's 
development agenda, and imbibe the culture of professionalism. 
This was further corroborated by an NYSC camp official, who 
informs further that;
The orientation programme aims to familiarise corps 
members with the camp environment, stimulate a sense 
of community living. The idea of having corps 
members stay together, work in groups helps them to 
know each other, understand each other's norms, 
customs and traditions of the communities where the 
8
camp is; imbibe the spirit of team work…
More so, the orientation programme in camps across the country 
is also structured to drive a fundamental objective which is often 
not expressly pronounced, perhaps because it is not 
emphatically stressed in the enabling legal construct of the 
scheme, but implied in the training protocols in camps. This is 
that of raising a leadership class amongst the educated youth 
that is patriotic, morally and physically disciplined and truly 
nationalistic. This expectation is grounded on the belief that 
having gone through the triple liberating experience of higher 
education, national service and exposure to other cultures, they 
would then act as social catalysts to take the country to a national 
imaginary. The triple process is also expected to liberate the 
informed and cultivated individual (through higher education), 
the dutiful citizen patriot (through national service) and the 
7 th 
See, NYSC (2018) National Youth Service Corps Yearbook: 45 Anniversary, Commemorative 
Edition,PP.16-458 
This NYSC official pleaded anonymity because he was not authorized to grant 
interview. However, he obliged information. His views were found instructive. Oral th 
Interview held with NYSC Official, 16 August, 2020, Abuja.
THE NATURE AND IMPACT OF NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS ORIENTATION CAMPS 439
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

9
nationalistic subject (through exposure to other cultures) . 
In furtherance of camp orientation ideals, partner agencies 
such as security organisations, Central Bank of Nigeria, National 
Directorate of Employment (NDE), Mercy Corps, Nigerian 
10 
Society of Engineers, Ministry of Education amongst others,
provide enlightenment on various aspects of vocational training 
to corps members. The point being made is therefore that camps 
are avenues for internalising the fundamentals of the NYSC 
scheme.
It makes sense to emphasize the point that beyond the ideals 
of national unity and integration that the scheme promotes, 
NYSC camps are also centres for entrepreneurship training. The 
youth bulge occasioned by the increasing challenge of youth 
unemployment in the country, the need to train corps members 
on entrepreneurial endeavours became imperative. Thus, 
beginning from 2012, entrepreneurship training became a 
complementary objective and it was objectified thus; “to enable 
Nigerian youths acquire the spirit of self-reliance by 
11
encouraging them to develop skills for self-employment” . 
Consequently, two specific programmes were introduced- Skill 
Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) and 
the War Against Poverty (WAP). The programmes are designed 
to train corps members on various vocational businesses and 
entrepreneurial skills both in and out of the orientation camp.
SAED is specifically couched to achieve the following 
objectives;
(i) Sensitization and mobilisation of corps members for 
enrollment into the skill acquisition and entrepreneurship 
development programme; 
9
See, Obasa, P.K. (1983) “Consolidation and After” in M. M. Owosina, S.O., et al (eds) 
Compendium of the National Youth Service Corps Scheme: Ten Years of Service to the Nation, 
Lagos: Super colour Production, PP. 60-122. This idea has also been expressed by 
Onyishi. Read, Onyishi, A. O. (2011) “Youth and National Development in Nigeria: An 
Analysis of National Youth Service Scheme, 1999-2019”, International of Modern Political 
Economy, Vol. 2, No. 1, PP. 87-102.10 
See, NYSC (2016) General Policy Guideline for NYSC Orientation Courses Reviewed11 
NYSC (2018) National Youth Service Corps Yearbook…p.36
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020440
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

(ii) Entrepreneurship and hands-on training in and out of 
camp;
(iii) Identification of organisations at the State level to provide 
training and mentoring in specific skills sets; 
(iv) Attachment of the corps members to take the various 
organisations for skill acquisition and entrepreneurship 
development
(v) Business plan/feasibility report development and 
collation
(vi) Monitoring and supervision of trainee corps Members; 
and 12
(vii) Facilitation of access to available funding opportunities .
As of 2018, the NYSC reported that over 1,132,409 corps 
members have been sensitised and reached with empowerment 
messages while over 764, 677 have completed post-camp 
training. In addition, the Bank of Industry (BOI) which partners 
the scheme on this programme trained no fewer than 3,927 corps 
members under the BOI-NYSC Graduate Empowerment Fund. 
One thousand and seventy –seven (1,077) of them have applied 
for loans in tune of about four billion naira and a total of five 
hundred and forty million naira had been disbursed to 325 corps 
members, and they have all established their own businesses in 13
different areas of the country . Another empowerment 
programme designed for corps members is christened War 
Against Poverty (WAP). It is an economic empowerment 
programme which focuses on SDGs 1&2 and targets the 
preparation of corps members for post-service life. It seeks to 
empower corps members with agro-enterprise skills and 
interest-free loans with a view to generating employment, 
reducing extreme poverty and hunger, creating wealth and 
boosting agricultural productivity for food security in the 
country. Corps members are given general entrepreneurial 
training in addition to specific training in snail production, bee 
rearing, plantain/banana sucker multiplication, mushroom 
12   
NYSC (2018) National  Youth Service Corps Yearbook… p.3613   
NYSC (2018) National  Youth Service Corps Yearbook… P.37
THE NATURE AND IMPACT OF NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS ORIENTATION CAMPS 441
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

farming and poultry farming. It is reported that as of 2018, 3,266 
corps members have been trained and 2,543 empowered with 
the sum of Six Hundred and Twenty-nine million, Seven 14
Hundred Thousand Naira (629,700,000) as revolving loans . The 
point is therefore that SAED and WAP have functioned as a 
social tool for reorientation at the camps as it relates to self-
reliance. The significance of these programmes is better 
appreciated when located within the context of reducing youth 
unemployment.
The utilitarian value of NYSC camps could also be discerned 
from some auxiliary benefits of camp experience. For a 'camp is 
more than a location or a programme; it encompasses the 
affective, cognitive, behavioral, physical, social and spiritual 
benefits that youth receive during and after the camping 15
experience . For example, NYSC camps provide corps members 
the opportunity to develop intrapersonal skills. These 
opportunities prop positive developments by offering novel, 
challenging experiences that effectively open the learning 
pathways of corps members. Through the enhancement of 
youth's self-awareness and socio-cultural consciousness, it is 
expected that they become empathetic to the understanding of 
'self' and 'others' as well as managing emotions and self-16
discipline .
More so, the fact that the setting of camp sites is isolated from 
the distractions that characterize everyday environs shapes 
camp experiences in a plethora of ways. A considerable body of 
literature has affirmed the fact that natural environments are 
contexts for personal restoration referred to as a reduction in 17
stress, arousal, and anxiety . Obviously, restorative settings 
promote a sense of being away, that is, a change in the location 
14 
NYSC (2018) National Youth Service Corps Yearbook…p.3815 
Henderson, K.A.; et al (2007) “Components of Camp Experiences for Positive Youth 
Development”,
Journal of Youth Development, 3(1), 17-28.16 
See, Garst, B. A., et al, (2011) “Youth Development and the Camp Experience”. New Directions th 
for Youth Development, No. 130. Retrieved 19 August, 2020. Published online in Wiley online 
Library. DOI: 10:1002/7d.398. P.7617
See, Stokols, D. & Altman, I. (eds.) Handbook of Environmental Psychology. See also, Hoboken, 
N. J. et al (1991) “Restorative Effects of Natural Environment Experience”, Environment and 
Behavior, 23, 3-26.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020442
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

and activities of daily life, and restoration associated with 
natural settings is greater than restoration received from non-
natural setting.
NYSC camps also promote the idea of group living. At camp, 
corps members experience all activities in social groups - eating, 
sleeping, playing and working. This helps to foster a sense of 
community in organisational settings and these organisational 
elements have a positive influence on corps members' self-
identity. It is in this context that a former NYSC Director-
General, Brigadier General H.B. Momoh's remarks as follows:
The NYSC orientation camp is more than a reflection of the 
entire nation. They are like cultural melting pots; considering 
that they bring together youths with diverse background from 
across the country for planned and systematic induction. The 
camp environment fosters peculiar closeness among corps 
members, enhances mutual interaction and understanding and 
helps to break down barriers arising from stenotypes and 18
prejudices which have been the bane of our pluralistic society .
Suffice it to add that, NYSC camps provide what could be 
described as an equalising context for corps members. For 
example, many of the status symbols (wearing certain clothing, 
luxurious personal effects) are less prevalent at camp. Corps 
members are provided with uniforms. Because youth corps 
members eat the same food, participate in the same activities and 
sleep in the same shared spaces, differences between the haves 
and the have-nots are minimized. The experience also helps to 
foster deep friendships with peers and therefore a sense of 19
belonging and connectedness . 
The significance of traditions and rituals such as opening 
ceremonies, competitive events, Camp Fire night and leadership 
programmes also need be stressed. Traditions and ritual foster 
group cohesion and community building. Positive experiences 
18 
Cited in NYSC YearBook 2018… P.6919 
The researcher was also privileged to undergo training as a youth corps member and 
therefore his reminiscence of this experience is from a former participant perspective.
THE NATURE AND IMPACT OF NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS ORIENTATION CAMPS 443
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

and memories such as awards received or performances shared 
become associated with camp traditions and rituals overtime 
and are imbued with emotional significance. Camp Fire 
ceremonies are a common feature of the camp experience and an 20
important example of traditions and rituals . Ceremonies like 
campfire programmes foster personal reflection and recognition 
that appear to strengthen camp participants' connection to the 
camp community. Indeed, NYSC campfires are symbolic and 
foundational to the construction of shared memories and 
storytelling. NYSC camps therefore provide opportunity for a 
pack of experiences that are critical not just for promoting 
intergroup relations on a national spectrum but also assist in 
internalizing virtues vital for transiting to adulthood. In sum, the 
ideation underlying the organization of NYSC camps is well 
thought out and promising. The extent to which these ideas have 
been achieved will be engaged in subsequent sections. Below is a 
table containing the list of addresses of NYSC orientation camps 
across Nigeria.
20 
The camp fire night experience is well laid in this document. “Interesting Activities 
You can be part of in NYSC camp”. Retrieved on 31 August, 2020, 
https//flexxzone.fcmb.com.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020444
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Table 11: Showing Orientation Camps and their Locations Nationwide
Source: National Youth Service Corps, 2018 Yearbook, P.310
THE NATURE AND IMPACT OF NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS ORIENTATION CAMPS 445
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The table above indicates that while some NYSC camps are 
temporary camps, others are permanent orientation camps. This 
parity has implications for the quality of camp facilities and this 
will be considered subsequently. However, our set task in this 
section is to identify and explicate on the thought-frame 
underlying the organisation of NYSC camps and the 
complementary values they imbue in corps members.
The Organisational Frame and Nature of Camp Activities in 
the NYSC Camps
NYSC camps are systematically organised to give effect to the 
objectives for which the camps are set up to attain. The 
engagements in camp are organised around four major 
activities;
(i) Admission of prospective corps members and 
commencement of registration.
(ii) Closure of registration at cut-off date and time (usually 
12.00 midnight of the second day of registration
(iii) Official opening ceremony during, which corps members 
are sworn-in and;
(iv) Closing of ceremony at the end of which corps members are 
issued posting letters for onward departure to their various 21
places of primary assignment .
In-between these major activities, there are also a number of 
very important events aimed at properly registering corps 
members and organising them into groups for easy 
administration of the camp and induction. Before isolating 
specific camp activities for emphasis, it makes sense to highlight 
salient procedural planks for admission of corps members in the 
camps and explicate on the role of NYSC bureaucracy as it 
relates to induction and all other activities. This is important 
because the organizational framework has serious implications 
for how well camp objectives are met and how the human 
resources on camp are managed. 
21 
See, General Policy Guideline for NYSC Orientation Courses Reviewed 2016, PP1-40.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020446
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

On arrival at the camp gate, every prospective corps member 
is subjected to manual and electronic security checks before 
passage into the camps is granted. The purpose of the check is to 
ensure security of the camps and also prevent unauthorised 
persons from infiltrating the camps. A call-up letter is therefore 
the first form of identity. After gaining entrance into the camps, 
prospective corps members are required to undergo a number of 
registration protocols namely; scrutiny of certificates and other 
required identifications, Issuance of State registration number, 
issuance of identity cards, opening of bank account and so on. 
On completion of registration protocols, corps members are 
organised into platoons. A platoon usually consists of a hundred 
corps members. Each platoon has a platoon officer who is an 
NYSC official, a Drill Instructor, a Physical Training Officer and 22
Platoon Leaders elected by the Platoon members . The point is 
that corps members are organised in manageable compartments 
and camp activities are filtered through these groups. It is 
therefore important to stress the special duties of platoon 
officers who by design are in-charge of the day to day 
management of corps members on camp. They are saddled with 
the following specific duties;
(i) In-charge of all corps in his/her assigned platoon
(ii) Maintain a register of all corps members in/his platoon
(iii) Ensure that corps members in his/her platoon attend all 
camp activities regularly and punctually and take their 
attendance
(iv) Take charge of the welfare of corps members in the 
platoons
(v) Supervise their participation in the routine camp activities, 
security, sports and games, etc.
(vi) Take roll call of corps members in the platoon both at 
morning and afternoon to ensure that corps members are 
present in the camp at all times.
(vii) Endorse all correspondences emanating from the corps 
members in the platoon to higher authorities.
22 
See, General Policy Guideline for NYSC Orientation Courses Reviewed 2016, p.11
THE NATURE AND IMPACT OF NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS ORIENTATION CAMPS 447
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

(viii) Endorse all correspondences emanating from the corps 
members in the platoon to higher authorities
(ix) Shall be in charge of general coordination of the platoon.
(x) Perform any other duties that may be assigned form time 23
to time by Camp Director and State coordinator .
From the above set of responsibilities, it is obvious that platoon 
officers ensure that corps members internalise camp values and, 
indeed, they are quasi managers. Platoon officers are in turn 
responsible to a pyramid of officials from which instructions and 
directives flow. The camp organogram below depicts the line of 
command and communication in the camp.
Table 12: National Youth Service Corps
Source: NYSC Secretariat, Abuja, 2020.
23 
See, General Policy Guideline for NYSC Orientation Courses Reviewed 2016, P.8
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020448
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The chart above deserves elucidation particularly as it concerns 
the roles of NYSC officials on camp. The State Coordinator is the 
Chief Coordinator of the camp and is responsible for the overall 
coordination, supervision, arrangement and organisation of the 
orientation camp. He or She is a senior official of NYSC. There is 
also a Camp Director. The Camp Director, who is usually an 
NYSC staff not below the rank of an Assistant Director, is 
appointed by the State Coordinator. He/she is in-charge of the 
general well-being of corps members and camp officials and also 
supervises all camp activities. The Camp Commandant who 
usually is military personnel (not below the rank of a Captain) is 
responsible for the Para-military training and discipline in the 
camp. He is responsible to the State Coordinator through the 
Camp Director and ensures that no open conflicts ensue between 
soldiers and other camp officials. The Man 'O' War Coordinator 
is usually a senior officer deployed from the Citizenship and 
Leadership Training Centre Headquarters. He /She is in-charge 
of leadership and citizenship training activities such as 
organizing campfire night, endurance trek and physical 
exercises. The Head of Police is responsible for security in the 
camp. There are also other security agencies that complement 
the Police like, Nigeria Security Civil Defense Corps (NSCDC), 
Department of State Security (DSS) and National Drug Law 
Enforcement Agency (NDLEA). The NDLEA carries out 
surveillance on camp with a view to preventing the sale and 
consumption of illicit drugs and educating corps members on 
the consequences of consuming illicit drugs. The Army handles 
24
drills and parades . The security architecture on NYSC camps is 
therefore elaborate and synergized in a manner that ensures 
reasonable protection for corps members and camp officials.
Aside these core officials, there are a number of very 
important supporting staff though not captured in the chart, 
they play critical roles in ensuring that the camp environment is 
serene and the day- to-day basics are met. The role of camp 
24 
See, General Policy Guideline for NYSC Orientation Courses Reviewed 2016, P.13.
THE NATURE AND IMPACT OF NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS ORIENTATION CAMPS 449
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

hands like labourers, cooks, and camp marketers stands out for 
mention. The cooks are engaged for cooking of corps members' 
meals, the casual labourers for camp cleanliness though corps 
members also give a hand. The camp marketers sell at camp 
markets under a regulated regime to avoid exploitation and 
unwholesome activities.
Another saliency that needs to be mentioned in the 
organizational frame of NYSC camps is the fact that there are 
administered camp committees. The core essence of forming 
camp committees is to ensure that NYSC officials, collaborating 
agencies and corps members work in sync and camp activities 
are participatory. Organising camp committees also lightens the 
task of coordinating the large population in the camps. The 
committees are formed at least one week before the 
commencement of camping activities. In each of the committees, 
NYSC officials are appointed as Heads of the committees. For 
convenience, the committees are highlighted below;
(i) Registration Committee: The committee comprises the 
Head of Mobilisation as Chairman, with at least six NYSC 
officials, including the Resident officers as members. The 
committee handles registration of all eligible corps 
members in the camp and ensures posting of the corps 
members as indicated in the posting policy.
(ii) Lecture/Programme Committee: this committee has the 
responsibility of drawing up daily programme and 
distribution of agenda to all principal officers and Heads of 
committees a day preceding the date (at least by 5.00pm) to 
enable them know the programme for the next day. They 
collaborate with the Public Relations unit to ensure that the 
lectures go on as planned.
(iii) Publicity Committee: This committee is headed by the 
Head of Public Relations unit with other Public Relations 
officers as members. The committee also comprises corps 
members selected by the Public Relations unit. This 
committee is alsoin-charge of all information 
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020450
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

dissemination on camp Orientation Broadcasting Service 
(OBS), printing and distribution of identity cards through 
platoon officers, as well as distribution of all NYSC 
publications. It also handles all duties of Master of 
ceremonies in all functions.
(iv) Food Committee: this committee usually has six corps 
members and at least six other persons drawn from the 
NYSC officials. The committee is also headed by a senior 
NYSC staff.
(v) Cooking: Experienced cooks are hired by State 
Coordinators in accordance with the NDHQ approved 
number of cooks for each camp. The cooks form the 
nucleus of the camp kitchen staff who handles the cooking 
under the supervision of a responsible, matured and 
experienced matron appointed from among the cooks. 
Corps members also participate in the daily cooking, and 
on platoon basis.
(vi) Social Committee: The committee comprise corps 
members and course officials with the Head of Social 
committee as the Chairman. The committee plans activities 
such as film shows, inter-platoon dance/drama 
competitions, welcome party for the corps members, 
variety night and other social activities as deemed fit. The 
committee interfaces with sponsors on behalf of the NYSC.
(vii) Utility/Maintenance Committee: The Head of the camp 
maintenance committee is an NYSC official. The 
membership is selected from two course officials and seven 
corps members from relevant disciplines such as Electrical, 
Plumbing and Mechanical Engineers (5 males, 2 females). 
The core responsibility of the committee is to undertake 
minor repairs in the camp.
(viii)Health Committee: This committee is made up of an NYSC 
official as chairman, two other course officials and seven 
corps members in the medical field. The task of this 
committee is taking care of the sick and injured corps 
THE NATURE AND IMPACT OF NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS ORIENTATION CAMPS 451
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

members.
(ix) Transport Committee: The transport officer serves as the 
chairman. Other members are the drivers in the secretariat.
(x) Sanitation Committee: An NYSC official not below SGL12 
chairs the committee with at least two other NYSC officers, 
camp hands and corps members are selected from 
platoons. The committee is responsible for the general 
cleaning of the entire camp.
(xi) Camp Court: The Camp Director is the Chairman, The 
Camp Commandant, Resident Officer, Head of Police, 
Man 'O' War Coordinator, NYSC staff of legal unit and four 
corps members including at least two corps lawyers and 
two platoon leaders as members. The camp court trials 
erring corps members.
(xii) Accommodation Committee: The Chairman is usually an 
NYSC official not below SGL14, while the Chairman of 
Utility Committee, the Chairman Sanitation Committee, 
and three corps members are members. The committee is 
responsible for providing accommodation for all course 
participants.
(xiii) Camp Market Committee: The Chairman is the Camp 
Director, while NYSC Accounts Officer, Public Relations 
Officer, Chairman Utility Committee, Head of Sanitation 
Committee, Camp Manager and two corps members are 
members. The committee allocates stalls to market 
operators, standardises prices of commodities and also 
ensures the non-exploitation of corps members by the 
traders.
(xiv) Sports Committee: This committee has an NYSC official as 
Chairman. Two other NYSC officials, Camp RSM, one 
member of Red Cross, four corps members (including two 
females), and two PE instructors as members. The 
committee organizes all inter-platoon sports competitions 
in the camp.
(xv) Evaluation Committee: This comprises the PRS 
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020452
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Scheduleofficer as Chairman, all platoon leaders (male and 
female), corps statisticians and four course officials. The 
committee is in charge of issuance of thirty percent form 4a 
questionnaires to corps members. This committee 
evaluates the entire orientation course using appropriate 
approved format.
(xvi) Orientation Steering Committee: This committee 
comprises all Heads of collaborating agencies, Heads of 
Committees and other key NYSC officials. The committee 
holds meeting every week to appraise all aspects of camp 
25
activities and the State Coordinator chairs all meetings .
An extrapolation of the responsibilities of various sub- 
committees indicates how elaborate, collaborative and indeed 
participatory the camps are organised. The fact that corps 
members are involved in virtually all the committees indicates 
the representative nature of camps. The involvement of corps 
members also offers them the opportunity of mentorship in 
organizational techniques. More so, given that the 
responsibilities of the various committees are well spelt out 
allows for easy coordination and efficiency. More striking is the 
fact that there is an evaluative committee that meets to appraise 
activities in camp, identify challenges and proffer solutions.
Camp activities are regimented such that they follow a 
prescribed path. Immediately after registration and 
documentation, the first important ceremony which is prepared 
for is the official opening ceremony. The prospective corps 
members are trained on how to conduct parade to receive a 
governor or his representative billed to swear in corps members. 
After the swearing in ceremony, camp orientation activities 
begin in earnest with the blowing of the bugle by 4.00am the next 
day. The bugle is used to summon corps members to the parade 
ground where the Camp Director alongside the Camp 
25
See, General Policy Guideline for NYSC Orientation Courses Reviewed 2016, PP.8-21
THE NATURE AND IMPACT OF NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS ORIENTATION CAMPS 453
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Commandant welcomes corps members formally and reels out 
the camp rules as well as intimate them on lines of 
communications and the training activities. At the parade 
ground, corps members file up according to platoons and the 
National Anthem, NYSC Anthem are sung to usher in daily 
activities.
The activities comprises mainly lectures, seminars, 
symposia, drills and physical training. The lecture topics cover 
wide issues including history and culture of the Nigerian 
people, language, national, political, social and economic issues. 
Innovative cultural programmes are organized by the social 
26
committee on platoon basis . Because of the limited time for 
orientation course (21 days), it is often difficult for corps 
members to participate in all the lecture series. This constraint 
necessitates choice of programmes to participate in by corps 
members. Ngozi Eze, a 2016 Batch 'A' Corps member who served 
in Bauchi State laments;
My experience in camp during lectures was funny. I 
used to jump from one hall to the other. I hardly 
completed any lecture because I wanted to listen to all of 
the lecturers. So I will go to the hall, listen to who is 
presenting, if the English is not sweet, I move on to the 
next hall… the problem with going up and down was 
that I never really followed any programme to the 
27
end…
Another important component of the orientation course is the 
drills and martial art exercises. Corps members are trained on a 
number of drill types. These drills are meant to enable them gain 
physical fitness and be mentally alert. Some of the drill types 
include; Attention, Stand at Ease, Saluting, Turning, Marching 
and Halting in slow and quick time, Turning and Saluting at the 
halt, Formations, Turning on the March, Silent Drill, Marching, 
26 
See, General Policy Guideline for NYSC Orientation Courses Reviewed 2016, P.2427 th
Oral interview, Ngozi Eze, 20 August, 2020, Abuja.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020454
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Turning and Halting ceremonial drills. Exercises specifically 
targeted at physical training, Groundwork, Games 
Organization, potted sports, obstacle training. Martial art is an 
extensive system of codified practices and tradition of combat 
for self-defense. It is an infusion of Taekwondo, Karate, Kick 
28
Boxing and Boxing . This form of exercises helps corps members 
imbibe techniques and combat strategies for self-defense and 
protection. Man 'O' War Bay activities include circuit training, 
principles and techniques of fire- fighting and prevention, First 
Aid, Road-walk, Road and Rock Climbing, Games and 
Mapping. The exercises are quite numerous and corps members 
are expected to select except for mandatory ones. Inter-platoon 
drill competitions are also organized and awards presented to 
winners.
Allowance is also made for religious activities on NYSC 
camps. The programme recognises the need for spiritual growth 
and development and is sensitive to the religious inclinations in 
the country. Consequently, three major religious formations are 
recognised and allowed space to operate in the camps. There are 
National Christian Corpers Fellowship (NCCF), National 
Association of Catholic Corpers (NACF) and Muslim Corpers 
29
Association of Nigeria (MCAN) . This faith based organisations 
play very important roles in camps. Aside mentoring their 
members spiritually, they also provide support to them in terms 
of accommodation and finances. It is important to add that their 
activities are regulated to avoid inter-faith misunderstanding.
Skills acquisition training is another very important camp 
activity that has gained prominence. The objectives of SAED 
which is the skills acquisition flag programme had earlier been 
stressed in the ideation on the essence of having NYSC camps. 
However, it is important to re-emphasise the point that the 
contemporary NYSC scheme lays emphasis on this component 
of training because of its capacity to stimulate life skills 
28 
NYSC (2019) Benue KOPA Orientation & Service Guide, Batch “B” Stream 1 Service Year.29 
See, General Policy Guideline for NYSC Orientation Courses Reviewed 2016
THE NATURE AND IMPACT OF NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS ORIENTATION CAMPS 455
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

necessary for entrepreneurship development and cultivation of 
self-reliance spirit amongst corps members. The import of a 
skills acquisition programme was also well stressed in the 2011, 
African Youth Report; 
The need to invest in human capital through education 
and skills development for young people remains of 
paramount importance…because of the return on 
education and the contribution to poverty reduction 
and achievement of the MDGs…young people need an 
enabling environment politically, economically and 
socially to thrive…They need to be empowered so that 
they can be represented and participate in decision 30
making processes that affect their lives .
This articulation reinforces the strategic relevance of skills 
acquisition as a cardinal camp activity. The extent to which the 
programme has impacted corps members will be measured in 
the subsequent section. The interest here is to stress its place as a 
camp activity.
At the peak of camp activities, a camp fire event is organized. 
This is a very important social activity that takes place in the 
night and is characterized by all sorts of contests, from beauty 
pageants, fashion parade, Mr &Mrs NYSC, Mr. Macho, Mr. 
Ugly, Food competition, etc. All the platoons in the camp 
participate in the contests and the best platoon is awarded 
prizes. The significance of this activity lies in the social 
interaction it forges. More so, it assists in defusing stress and 
tension among corps members.
Impact of NYSC Camps on Corps Members and their Environs 
A useful and convenient template for appraising the impact of 
orientation camps on corps members is to locate and highlight 
the effects within the contextual milieu of the objectives of the 
orientation programme. And then identify what effects cascade 
30 
See, Africa Youth Report (2011) Assessing the Youth Education and Employment Nexus in 
the Global Economy, Addis Ababa, UNECA.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020456
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

down to the host community. A central aim of the NYSC scheme 
is to promote the ethos of unity and cultural integration so as to 
address the national identity question that became pronounced 
sequel to the civil war. To achieve this core objective, the series of 
lectures on the cultures of the different Nigerian people and the 
mingling that the camp environment enables have helped to 
reframe erroneous perceptions about some ethnic groups in 
Nigeria profoundly. In an interview, Adejo Alexander Johnson, 
a former Corps Member from Benue State under 2019 Batch 'B' 
Stream II avers his camp experience thus;
I was posted to Anambra State but had intention to 
relocate. I heard a whole lot about Igbo people and how 
they segregate and prefer theirs to yours… The most 
threatening thing I heard about them is that they eat 
humans. My mum told me about her relation that was 
killed. I had a senior colleague in school who they said 
was “killed” during his service year in Enugu. When I got 
to camp, the first thing I did was to make my intention to 
redeploy known to the coordinator. But he said he saw the 
potential in me that i will do well in the State. I was really 
not convinced. But in the course of the orientation, I had 
opportunities to do so many things. I was camp MC and 
handled so many social activities as well as repair of camp 
gadgets. After that, it was a whole different perception. 
The hospitality, I received in and outside camp was 31
amazing .
Adejo's experience speaks to how well-couched interactions on 
camp could change misperceptions about a people's culture and 
reset the frame of mind of corps members. Interviewees have 
enacted similar stories indicating how the camp reconstructed 32
their understanding of ethnic dynamics of the country .
31 
Interview, The Nation Newspaper, July 23, 202032 st 
Oral interview, Mati Suleiman, Dutsin-Ma, Katsina State, 1 September, 2020, Oral st 
Interview, Habibu Adamu, Dutsin-Ma, 1 September, 2020, Oral Interview, Ndulue th 
Okuludo, Makurdi, 5 September, 2020.
THE NATURE AND IMPACT OF NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS ORIENTATION CAMPS 457
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC camps are regimented and youth corps members are 
compelled to imbibe the culture of discipline. Obviously, the 
mechanism of discipline which the NYSC Habitus and 
associated training protocols allows for control at a distance that 
justifies the need to build and enforce disciplinary structures. 
Indeed, the presence of military officers in NYSC camps; the 
command and control nature of activities forges orderliness 
amongst corps members. James Job, a 2019 youth corps member 
who served in Adamawa State affirms;
To start with, every corps member lived a regimented 
lifestyle. Everything was controlled, even siesta was 
regimented. However, as stressful and oftentimes 
annoying as these processes seemed, they had their 
merit and demerits. For instance, for the first time in a 
long while, I observed a kind of discipline in 
uniformity…In camp, failure to adhere to some rules 
and directives would warrant punishment. In sum, the 
strict adherence to the rules helped us to be 33
disciplined .
The strict timeliness that ties camp activities has helped in no 
small way in instilling discipline. It is worth stressing that the 
discipline in camp has helped corps members to correct, 
improve their overall conditions, moral character with 
behavioral patterns that are in tune with the requirements of the 
job market. Discipline is an essential part of life necessary for 
orderly conduct. Discipline shapes the individual towards 
achieving the goals of life. In fact, a society without the proper 
discipline encourages unsocial activities. Therefore, the strength 
of a nation lies in discipline. Respondents have lent credence to 
the fact that the disciplinary values in camp helped them to reset 
their conduct and imbibe the virtue of self-discipline which is a 
necessary requirement for not just self but societal 34
development . The fact that development rests squarely on 
33 th   
Oral Interview, James Job, Kaduna, 10 August, 2020.34 th   
Oral Interview, David Igba, 18 August, 2020.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020458
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

individual discipline has never been more apparent than it is in 
contemporary times. Research evidence has shown that societies 
in which discipline is at its highest are also the fastest to develop 
whilst the least disciplined societies only witness ever 35
worsening conditions . Corollary, in a recent address on 
discipline, the Ameer and Missionary-in-Charge, Maulana 
Noor- Muhammed Bin Salih stated that a country may have all 
the mineral resources in the crust of its lands, all the petroleum 
resources of its sea coast, the greenest of forests and the best 
human resources yet that country will continue to be in abject 
poverty unless it adopts a disciplined approach into harnessing 36
these resources together to the benefit of its people . The 
emphasis on discipline is indicative of how important and 
strategic it is for youth and national development.
The Para-military drills and accompanying sanctions force 
adherence to deadlines. This has impacted positively on work 
ethics not just in camp tasks but has prepared corps members for 
the job market. This is a very important requirement for not only 
self but national development. Indeed, time management is 
critical for the attainment of set goals. It helps in meeting 
deadlines and appointments, it reduces procrastination, 
maintains professional reputation, avoids financial penalties, 
reduces wastages and sets a better work and life balance to 
mention but a few benefits. Habiba Mohammed, a former corps 
member, who served in Katsina reveals that;
Every morning, we were expected to be at the parade 
ground by 4.30am. yes, I really mean 4.30am in the 
morning. If you do not want to do frog jumps. Waking 
early was a prerequisite for getting water to bath…our 
period in camp was during the cold season, so to beat 
35 
The role of discipline in stimulating development is well stated in studies, See for 
instance, Wilsi, J.F. & William, K. , (1982) Principles of Efecctive Discipline, Boston: Allyn 
& Bacon. See also, Nichols, J. D., (2004) An Exploration of the Discipline and Suspension 
Data, Journal of Negro Education, 73(4), 408-423.36 
Read, Abdul-Wahab Issah, (2015) “Self-Discipline- A Panacea to National nd   
Development” www.mkaghana.org , Retrieved, 2 September, 2020.
THE NATURE AND IMPACT OF NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS ORIENTATION CAMPS 459
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

the 4.30am time most corps members took their bath in 
the night while others went to the parade ground 
without taking their bath. This has helped me greatly, I 37
now wake up 4.30 and I go to work early…
Another camp activity that has impacted on corps members 
fundamentally is the physical fitness and mental alertness and 
preparedness. These forms of exercises are useful for 
emergencies and indeed, have prepared corps members to 
confront emergencies when such occur. Emergencies such as 
fires and explosions are reoccurring challenges that need be 
prepared for in order to minimise the impact. The import of this 
activity could further be gleaned from the fact that emergencies 
occur often in work places and therefore the need to prepare 
ahead of emergencies cannot be underestimated. The World 
Health Organisation (WHO) defines an “emergency as a 
state…in which normal procedures are suspended and extra-
ordinary measures are taken in order to avert the impact of a 38
hazard on the community” . Thus, WHO also recognises that 
work places must prepare for emergencies in order to prevent 39 
them from advancing and causing maximum damages. A 
further impact of camp activities on corps members could be 
inferred from the spirit of tolerance that is infused in them while 
undergoing training in the camps. They are made to live 
together in hostels and learn to endure and tolerate one another. 
This has encouraged connectedness, dialogue, cooperation and 
negotiation. This has also helped in forging friendship across 
ethnic boundaries and narrowed lines of division. This point is 
better appreciated when viewed from the prism of national 
unity and integration. Chioma Ezenwa, an indigene of Imo State, 
who served in Zamfara pontificates along this line of thought 
this way;
37 nd   
Oral Interview, Habibu  Mohammed, Katsina, 2 September, 202038 
See, WHO-World Health Organization (2011) Disasters. Also read, Gibson, G. A., 
(2003)Emergency Preparedness; Encyclopedia of Occupational Health and Safety, ILO, Geneva.39
WHO-World Health Organization (2011) Disasters.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020460
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

For the first time in my life I was compelled to live in a 
hostel with ladies who were Muslims. At first, I felt 
somehow; we had to learn how to respect their prayer 
periods, be sensitive to their religious practices and so 
on. Within one week, I became best of friends with 
Aisha. In fact, she was my best friend in camp and it so 
happened that we did our primary assignment in the 
same local government and the friendship 40
continued…
This insight speaks of how productive the idea of mixing-up 
corps members irrespective of their religious inclinations and 
ethnic backgrounds could be and how it potently stimulates 
friendship across lines.
It is important to also make the point about the security 
component of camp activities and how it impacts on corps 
members. The military drills in camp are geared towards 
arousing security consciousness amongst them. During camp 
activities, corps members are encouraged to join camp police 
where there are tutored on security tips. This training has helped 
in scaling up their level of security consciousness. Also, 
leadership and citizenship lectures also prepared them for 
participation in decision-making and encouraged team work. 
The inclusion of youth corps members in almost all the 
communities provides practical training grounds to put in use 
all that had been theorized. Sport activities also impacted on the 
socialisation process in camp. This again has assisted the 
building of bonds across cultural divides.
The impact of the Skills Acquisition Programme on corps 
members deserves interrogation. The Skills Acquisition and 
Entrepreneurship Development programme (SAED) attempts 
to mitigate unemployment challenges and shift emphasis from 
white collar jobs to self-employment, most especially after the 
mandatory one-year national service. The entrepreneurship 
training impacts on corps members in a variety of ways. First, it 
40 th   
Oral Interview, Chioma  Ezenwa, Makurdi, 5 September, 2020
THE NATURE AND IMPACT OF NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS ORIENTATION CAMPS 461
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

prepares them psychologically by reshaping their post-
graduation expectations as it concerns the labour market. 
Secondly, it equips them with skills pertaining to independent 
start-up. Though there are notable challenges with the SAED 
programme; like the lack of inadequate instruments to engage in 
hands-on training sessions, training space constraints, choked 
nature of activities, However, there is a great deal of evidence 
indicating that a number of corps members have benefited from 
the programme and have set-up their own businesses. Ifeanyi 
Ike, a former youth corps member who served in Benue State 
lends support this fact. He remarks thus;
I am from Enugu State and served in Benue State. I first 
learnt how to repair phones in the Wanune camp. 
Though the period for training was short but because I 
was determined, I concentrated and continue the 
training after camp. Today, I am gainfully employed. I 
have my shop, I do not just repair phones, I also sell 41
phone accessories and I have employed a sales girl…
The point in emphasis is that the skills acquisition programme 
has had some reasonable impact on corps members and several 
other NYSC documents have attested to this fact.
The impact of camp activities on the host environment could 
be deduced from the benefits accruable to host communities. 
NYSC camps generate some local economy centred on camp 42
markets . Majority of the marketers are members of the host 
community. The commercial gains derivable from the camp 43
markets are therefore enjoyed by the participants . In this sense, 
NYSC camps heighten the tempo of commercial activities in the 
host communities.
41 th   
Oral Interview, Ifeanyi Ike, Makurdi, 5 September, 2020.42 
NYSC camp markets are also called “mammy markets”, the name is a slang borrowed 
from the fond name for military barrack markets. The mammy market in military barracks 
is traceable to Mrs Mammy Ochefu who is said to have started the market selling traditional 
soft drinks. For details see, “History of Mammy Market, NYSC News”, www.nyscnews.com43 th 
Oral Interview, Grace Aga, Food Vendor, Wannune Camp, Wannune, 7 September, 2020, th 
Oral Interview, Msuega Atser, Barbar, Wannune Camp, Wannune, 7 September, 2020.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020462
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Another area of benefit is that the camp hands that is, the 
labourers, cooks, local vigilante men are sourced from the host 
community. Transporters around the camp environs also 
experience a boom in their businesses during camp periods. This 
fact is better appreciated when one considers the opportunities 
and linkages that are created. More so, the creation of training 
streams necessitates the convening of orientation programmes 
at short intervals. Thus, the camp environment benefits 
immensely from orientation camps.
Core Challenges of NYSC Orientation Camps and the Youth 
Development Question
Despite the utilitarian value of orientation camps and their 
impact on corps members, there are notable challenges that 
continue to undermine the realisation of objectives of NYSC 
scheme. A perfunctory glimpse at Table 1 suggests that about 
Ten States carry out Orientation programme in temporary sites. 
The improvised camps in effect also imply that the facilities are 
also improvised. In fact, even at permanent camps, the question 
of inadequate facilities continues to elicit lamentations and this 
particular challenge is as old as the NYSC. To buttress the 
seriousness of the problem, a number of examples suffice for 
mention. A youth corps member who underwent training at 
Taraba State NYSC permanent Orientation camp, Sibre, Jalingo, 
decried the state of facilities thus; 
It was at the camp I learnt how to ease myself in a bowl 
and use my hands to throw it over the fence because the 
toilets were so terrible I still feel sick anytime I recall my 
days at the camp…While the camp appeared neat, the 
sanitary condition at the lavatory was really appalling 
mainly from poor maintenance and attitude of some of 44
our colleagues…
This lamentation is true for some camps. The former NYSC 45 
Director General, Major General Suleiman Kazaure, also had 
44 th   
Oral Interview, Abdullahi Sani, Dutsin-Ma, 5 September, 202045 nd
Nigerian Tribune, November, 22 , 2018.
THE NATURE AND IMPACT OF NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS ORIENTATION CAMPS 463
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

course to decry the dilapidated conditions of facilities at an 
orientation camp in Paiko, Niger State during a visit to the 2018 
Batch 'C' stream two Corps members. He expressed his 
frustrations over the state of facilities and described it as the 
worse at the time. It is important to point out that the National 
Youth Service Corps ACT CAP N84 Laws of the federation vests 
the responsibility of providing functional orientation camps for 46
corps members use on State governments . However, there is a 
sense in which corps members also share the blame particularly 
in the misuse of facilities. The tale on facilities is not just that of 
lamentations, there are also examples of orientation camps with 
relatively standard facilities. Ngozi Frances who had her 
orientation at Keffi camp affirms;
I will say Keffi orientation camp is one of the best 
camps in the country. It has basic facilities like 
electricity, water, security and many more. To me, 
the only issue could be the location of the camp, 
which is along the Keffi-Abuja express way. It 47
gives corps members' easy access to town…
A related challenge is the increasing number of graduates who 
are mobilized annually across institutions in the country. These 
increasing numbers overstretch facilities and make the camps 
very uncomforting for activities and camp administration. The 
question of facilities has long been a sour point since 1973 and 
springs basically from the level of funding which is a function of 
the disposition of funding agencies.
Security of orientation camps particularly those in volatile 
States is a teething challenge. In 2012 for example, camp 
activities could not hold in three States namely Borno, Yobe and 48
Bayelsa States . In Borno and Yobe States, the postponement of 
46 
See, NYSC (2004) The National Youth Service Corps ACT. CAP N84 Laws of the Federation of 
Nigeria Abuja.47 th   
Interview inLeadership Newspaper, 14 December, 202048 
Read, Utomwen, D. (2012) Tackling NYSC's Security Challenge, http://www.pm th 
newsnigeria.com/2012/12/10/tackling-nysc-security-challenge/- Retrieved on 10 
August, 2020.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020464
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

the orientation course was for security reasons. The corps 
members posted to Borno State had their camp at the Benue State 
orientation camp at Wanune, Tarka Local Government Area. 
Those for Yobe State held their orientation course at the Keffi 
camp in Nasarawa State. For Bayelsa State, the postponement of 
the orientation course was because of flooding in the State and 
the subsequent accommodation of displaced victims in the 49
NYSC orientation camp in Kaiama . However, the orientation 
courses still held at the Kaiama camp but at a later date. The 
Point to note here is that the NYSC sometimes make adjustments 
to dates for orientation courses in some States due to security 
and logistics reasons.
A major fault line is the funding gaps in the programme. This 
has remained a major constraint since the birth of NYSC. It has 
affected all planks of NYSC programmes including camp 
activities. Properly put, it is at the root of almost all inefficiencies 
in the programme. The increasing number of prospective corps 
members has compounded the challenge and triggered calls for 
a suspension of the entire exercise. The NYSC 2018 Yearbook 
notes this disturbing challenge thus;
It is a concern that while the number of corps 
participants has been on the upswing, in the last few 
years, there have not been conscious efforts by the State 
governments to expand the various Orientation camps 
at least the 5000 capacity types. This gap in facilities has 
resulted in the segmentation of batches of corps 
members into streams, with attendant negative health 
implications for the managers of the Scheme, who, 
literally, spend great part of the year in the Orientation 50
Camps…
Though the quotation above appears to have singled out the 
State governments for emphasis, it is important to add that all 
three tiers of government (Federal, State and Local 
49
Daily Trust Newspaper, November, 3 , 2012.50
See, National Youth Service Corps Yearbook 2018…
THE NATURE AND IMPACT OF NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS ORIENTATION CAMPS 465
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

governments) are statutorily obliged to fund the programme.
The new normal occasioned by Covid-19 pandemic has 
triggered calls for the suspension of orientation activities in 
camps for at least two years. The Economic Sustainability 
Committee in its report submitted by Vice-President, Yemi 
Osinbajo recommended the direct mobilisation of prospective 
corps members to their places of primary assignment. He argued 
that the suspension of the camping exercise was recommended 
to maintain social distancing as part of measures to stop the 51
spread of the virus . This development poses a new challenge 
that might undo the spirit and letters of Decree 24 of 1973. It 
worth noting that, the idea of the scheme was to reawaken 
patriotism, propagate unity and revive the culture of discipline 
and endurance. It was in the orientation camps that the 
foundation for these ideals was cultivated and somewhat 
practicalised. Thus, suspending camps and posting corps 
members straight for primary assignment, though expedient 
given the current circumstances, will in the main undermine the 
essence of orientation and wind-off the benefits. It is a 
considered view that Covid -19 protocols can be extended to the 
camps while provisions are made for medical personnel, Para-
medics, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), hand-washing 
facilities, sanitizers and if possible, isolation centers and other 
safe guards. But this would require massive investments in 
camp facilities. No doubt, it is a tall order but the fact that it is do-
able cannot be denied.
The challenges enumerated above ignite a conversation 
around the youth development question particularly that NYSC 
camps are meant to provide some foundation for building youth 
capacities. It is important to reiterate that the NYSC scheme 
attempts to stimulate both youth and national development. To 
this end, NYSC camps are supposed to give expression to youths 
as instruments of change by helping to shape the virtues of 
national unity and integration in corps members. Thus, the 
NYSC environment (camp) need be equipped with adequate 
51 th 
See, Punch Newspaper, June 17 2020
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020466
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

facilities and human resources to enable the realization of the 
youth development objectives which the camps are expected to 
nurture. This is important because the state and quality of 
facilities have implications for how well or extent to which the 
effects of the orientation courses will impact corps members. 
The core challenges also expose the gap that exists between 
the triad of policy, practice and implementation of youth 
development policies. Without a doubt, the philosophical 
construction and policy direction of the NYSC scheme is well 
thought out. However, the funding and implementation 
commitments continue to be problematic. This also bespeaks the 
level of commitment of successive governments to youth 
development.
It is worth adding that NYSC camps provide pathways for 
corps members to develop skills and social capital necessary to 
transit to work places. This is why it is the first major activity of 
the NYSC scheme. But the challenges enumerated above 
continue to dim the full realisation of the ideals of youth 
development. More so, considering the fact that skills 
acquisition and entrepreneurship training which take place first 
in the camps prepare corps members to be more disposed to 
being self-reliant, independent entrepreneurs, resourceful and 
employers of labor, demands that the NYSC scheme is 
adequately funded. The African Youth Report, 2011 stresses the 
importance of funding Youth programmes thus; The need to 
invest in human capital through education and skills 
development for young people remains of paramount 
importance…because of the return on education and the 
contribution to poverty reduction… young people need 
enabling environment politically, economically and socially to 
thrive in our countries. They need to be empowered so that they 
can be represented and participate in decision-making processes 52
that affect their lives . 
52
See, Africa Youth Report (2011) Assessing the Youth Education and Employment Nexus in the 
Global Economy, Addis Ababa, UNECA.a
THE NATURE AND IMPACT OF NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS ORIENTATION CAMPS 467
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

This articulation reinforces how important funding the NYSC 
scheme is; particularly that it holds much promise for youth 
development.
The security crisis in the North East has had tremendous 
implications for youth development in the region. Aside 
frustrating the idea of fostering cultural integration and 
interaction across the country, it has created youth –flation in the 
53
other political zones of the country . The implication is that the 
North-East is under represented in youth capabilities for 
development; whereas the more stable regions experience 
varied dimensions of youth capital thereby hampering 
integrated development.
The sum point is therefore that a plethora of challenges 
buffet the full realisation of objectives of the orientation 
programme, though it has on scale impacted positively on the 
development of corps members. Critical stakeholders in the 
NYSC project must therefore organise around the challenges 
and strengthen the scheme.
Conclusion
NYSC orientation camps are a foundational subset and critical in 
realising objectives of the scheme. The chapter provided an 
analytical perspective for properly appreciating the 
philosophical ideation of NYSC camps. It deconstructed the 
thought process and utilitarian value of confining youth corps 
members in a regimented space and dilated on the 
organisational structure and nature of training activities. It 
argued factually that, indeed, NYSC camps have assisted in 
53
See, Dereck, O.A., (2015) “Youth in Development: Understanding the Contributions of 
the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) to Nigeria's National Development”, PhD 
Thesis, School of Environment, Education and Development (SEED), Institute of 
Development Policy and Management (IDPM).
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020468
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

forging national integration amongst corps members and 
blurring divisive lines as well as reshaping the dynamics of 
nation-building for national development. It also noted that the 
camps have provided training grounds for inculcating 
entrepreneurial skills amongst corps members. This has helped 
in shifting the proclivity of graduate youths for white collar 
employment. The communities where NYSC camps are located 
have also benefitted from the entrepreneurial advantages that 
camp markets offer as well as the job opportunities camps 
generate. However, the chapter noted that several challenges are 
undermining the full realisation of the objectives of NYSC 
orientation camps. These challenges include among others, lack 
of adequate facilities and poor funding. Nevertheless, the fact 
that NYSC camps are indispensable in the fulfillment of the 
ideals of the scheme has been well stressed. Therefore, funding 
agencies are invited to make concerted efforts towards 
equipping designated NYSC camps for optimal performance. 
The stark realities of Covid-19 pandemic make the dire need for 
an aggressive funding of camps even more compelling.
References
Abdul-Wahab Issah (2015) “Self Discipline-A Panacea to 
National Development” www.mkaghana.org.
Africa Youth Report (2011) Assessing the Youth Education and 
Employment Nexus in the Global Economy, Addis, Ababa.
Ansell, N., (2005) Children, Youth and Development , Routledge 
Perspectives, Oxon
Arnett, J.J. (2007) “Emerging Adulthood: What is it, and What is 
it good For?” Child Development Perspectives, Vol. 1(2).
Cartwright, G. F., et al, (2000) “Self- Actualization of Youth in a 
Summer Camp”, Psychological Reports, 87(30, 729-730.
THE NATURE AND IMPACT OF NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS ORIENTATION CAMPS 469
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Dereck, O.A. (2015) “Youth in Development: Understanding the 
Contributions of the National Youth Service Corps 
(NYSC) to Nigeria's National Development, PhD Thesis, 
School of Environment, Education and Development 
(SEED), Institute of Development Policy and Management 
(IDPM).
Garst, B. A. et al (2011) “Youth Development and Camp 
Experience”
New Directions for Youth Development , NO.13O.Garst, B. A., & 
Bruce, F. A. (2003) Identifying 4-H Camping Outcomes 
using a Standardized Evaluation Process Across Multiple 
4-H Educational Centers, Journal of Extension, 41(3), 1-7.
Gibson, G.A. (2003) Emergency Preparedness: Encyclopedia of 
Occupational Health and Safety, Geneva.
Henderson, K. A., et al, (2007) “Components of Camp 
Experiences for Positive Youth Development” Journal of 
Youth Development, 3(1).
Henderson, K. A., et al, (2007) “Overview of Camp Research”, 
Child and Adolescent Psychiatric Clinics of North America, 16 
94), 755- 767.
Hoboken, N. J., et al (1991) “Restorative Effects of Natural 
Environment Experience”, Environment and Behavior, 23.
Maestri, G., (2019) “The Contentious Sovereignties of the Camp: 
Political Contention among State and Non-State Actors in 
Italian Roma Camps” Political Geography, 49, Vol. 60, 
PP.213- 222.
Minca, C. (2015) “The Counter – Camps and Other Spatialities”,
Political Geography, 49, PP. 90-92.
st 
Myles, L. L., et al, (2018) Summer Camp as a force for 21 Century 
learning: Exploring Divergent Thinking and Activity 
Selection in a Residential Camp Setting”, Journal of Youth 
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020470
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Development, Vol.13, Issue 1-2, P. 287.
Nichols, J. D., (2004) “An Exploration of the Discipline and 
Suspension Data”, Journal of Negro Education, 73(4), 408-
423.
Nigerian Tribune, November 2nd 2020.
NYSC (1983) Summative Evaluation Report of Ten Years of the 
National Youth Service Corps in Nigeria, Directorate of the 
National Youth Service Corps, Lagos
NYSC (1993) National Youth Service Corps Decree NO.51 OF 1993.
National Youth Service Corps Service, Abuja.
NYSC (2004) The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) ACT. 
CAPN84 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, Abuja
NYSC (2011) National Youth Service Corps, Bye Laws, Abuja.
NYSC (2011) National Youth Service Corps: General Policy 
Guidelines for Orientation Courses, Planning, Research and 
Statistics Department, Abuja.
NYSC (2014) NYSC Magazine, The Journal of NYSC, Directorate 
Headquarters, Abuja.
NYSC (2016) Benue KOPA Orientation 7 Service Guide, Batch “B” 
Stream 1 Service Year.
NYSC (2018) National Youth Service Corps Yearbook: 45th 
Anniversary, Commemorative Edition.
Obasa, P. K. (1983) “Consolidation and After” in M. M. Owosina, 
S.O., et al (eds.) Compendium of the National Youth Service 
Corps Scheme: Ten Years of Service to the Nation, Super Color 
Production, Lagos.
Punch Newspaper, June17th, 2020.
Sonni G. T., (1995) Nigeria: Youth Agenda for the 21st Century, 
Ibadan: Sibon Books Limited
The Nation Newspaper, July 23, 2020
THE NATURE AND IMPACT OF NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS ORIENTATION CAMPS 471
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Utomwen, D., (2012) “Tackling NYSC's Security 
C h a l l e n g e ” , h t t p : / /  w w w . p m  
newsnigeria.com/2012/12/10/tackling-nyscs-security- 
challenge, Retrieved on 10th August, 2020.
WHO-World Health Organization (2011) Disasters
Wilsi, J. F., & William, K., (1982) Principles of Effective Discipline, 
Boston: Allyn & Bacon.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020472
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

SECTION FOUR: 
ACHIEVEMENTS AND 
CONTRIBUTIONS TO 
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Chapter Fifteen 
THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION 
IN NIGERIA, 1973-2020
Evelyn Onwaniba
Nigerian Army Resource Centre Abuja
Introduction
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) has been a major 
component for the enhancement of unity and development in 
Nigeria since its creation in 1973. Through its cross-cultural 
deployment of graduate youths to various communities in 
Nigeria and programmes initiated as they evolved, the scheme 
has to a large extent fostered understanding, tolerance, 
friendship and peace among the peoples of the nation. However, 
the goal of national integration is an unending process, 
especially in the face of increasing conflict and insecurity that 
st 
characterised the 21 century following wide spread internal 
skirmishes occasioned by insurgency, global terrorism and 
other violent activities. All these have become major threats to 
not only Nigeria's peace and security, but also the world's at 
large. Insecurity is a natural threat to national integration as it 
threatens the unity of the people. Nigeria, like other pluralistic 
states in Africa, has been grappling with the problem of national 
integration. The quest for national integration has been a major 
post-independence agenda of every government that has 
emerged in the country since 1960. Meanwhile, Nigeria is not left 
alone in this ultimate search. The pursuit of national integration 
has dominated states with multiple race, ethnics, religions and 
ideologies across the world. Every continent, including Europe, 
America, Asia and Africa has experienced one form of challenge 
or the other as a result of several factors in thepursuit for 
development. Whether at the national level involving 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

individual states or at the regional level where multiple states 
converge, nations have struggled to harmonise their peoples, 
economies and policies for the overall development of their 
countries, region or continent. This could be seen in the 
emergence of different regional organisations such as the 
European Union (EU), the Association of Southeast Asian 
Nations (ASEAN), the Organisation of African Unity (OAU) 
now African Union (AU), the Southern African Community 
(SADC), Arab League (AL) and the Economic Community of 
West African States (ECOWAS), among others. Most entities 
that embarked on the national integration aim at uniting the 
1 
peoples, culture/race and economies for development. Given 
the diversity of cultures in a country and the inclination to have 
parochial allegiance as against national patriotism, the need to 
pursue the goal of national integration becomes imperative as it 
gives room for wider cooperation and harmony which is needed 
to move the country forward. Since the attainment of political 
independence in 1960, successive governments have introduced 
several structural mechanisms geared towards national 
integration. One of these structural means was the introduction 
of the NYSC scheme in 1973.It is against this backdrop that this 
chapter attempts to discuss the NYSC and national integration 
in Nigeria.
Conceptualisation of Terms: Integration and National 
Integration As a term national integration is derived from the 
words nation and integration. By nation is meant a historically 
organised community of people; with different ethnicity, 
religion and culture, among others, constituting a sovereign 
state; while integration simply means unification. That is, an act 
of bringing together different components to form a whole part. 
Integration is a process of making undivided, entirely whole or 
2 
complete. What this connotes is that there are varied 
1 
See Desmond Dinan . 2014. Europe Recast: A History of European Union SECOND 
EDITION. USA; Lynne Rienner pp.1-102 
Etymology offline English Dictionary
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020476
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

components that are required to be made into one piece. This 
definition of integration shows that a country that cannot unify 
its peoples and ideologies cannot be said to be a whole or 
complete nation.
Integration could be cultural, communicative or normative; 
whereby different cultures, ideas, services, and peoples, among 
others, are brought together for a common purpose. It could also 
be a deliberate effort by a constituting authority or state to unite 
its population, or by natural processes through some levels of 
interactions including migration, inter-marriages, resettlement, 
3
trade and so on.
Integration in a social group or a nation is an unending 
process of bringing the diverse people into equal participation. 
This means it is a course of action and not an end in itself. In other 
words, it is a phenomenon that is hinged on many factors to 
harmonise the peoples of a country to aid national development. 
Hence, it is determined by the degree to which members and 
groups in a plural society adapt to the demands of national 
norms that enable them to co-exist harmoniously. As a gradual 
process, its gains are consolidated overtime but it requires the 
efforts and cooperation of all groups concerned to not only 
accept the goals of creating a common identity, but to also work 
towards achieving it. It requires a conscious attitudinal change 
by all stakeholders and a push to achieve a common purpose. 
Through such effort the socio-cultural, economic, and political 
dynamics of the diverse groups are harmonised and peaceful 
interrelationship is built for national development. While it is 
the duty of the state to chart a national course for the people, it is 
the responsibility of every citizen and groups to uphold same 
and avoid divisive tendencies that could jeopardise the nation's 
peace, unity and progress. 
National integration is the awareness of common identity 
amongst the citizens of a country and the recognition by people 
3 
Landecker W. J. 1951. “Types of Integration and their Measurement” in American 
Journal of Sociology and Language 20. Pp.23-36
THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION IN NIGERIA, 1973-2020 477
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

of different ethnics, beliefs, ideology domiciled in a nation-state 
4 
that regardless on their differences “we are one”. It entails 
“creating a mental outlook which will promote and inspire 
every person to place loyalty to the country above group 
loyalties and the welfare of the country above narrow sectarian 
5
interests.” 
National integration is aimed at re-invigorating national 
consciousness and pride by establishing norms and 
commitment by the varied constituents to achieve it. In other 
words, national integration is not just an abstract concept, but 
also a conscious effort that involves the building or development 
of the mind of people to arouse the same national consciousness, 
which can be done through education. This is based on the 
understanding that literacy enhances understanding, which in 
turn breeds tolerance, acceptance and fosters peaceful ethno-
religious relations, security and the harmony that is intended, 
among others. Hence, it entails a socio-psychological and 
educational process through which a feeling of unity and 
harmony is developed in the hearts of the people and a sense of 
common citizenship or feeling of loyalty to the nation(-state) is 
6 
fostered among them, rather than parochial allegiance.
National integration helps “to forge a collection of national 
identity, so that the citizens are able to see their citizenship in the 
nation as being more important than citizenship in ethnic 7 
nationalists.” Hence, it entails the harmonising of varied 
groups' economies, territories, ideology, religion, culture and 
other fragments to forestall allegiance to a particular race, 
4 
Odeh Lemuel E. Ethno-Religious Issues and National Integration in Nigeria. in Human Views 
on God not Monotomy: Essays in Honour of Ade .P. Dopamu. Pp 199-2005 
Dorathy Simpson. “National Integration and secularism”. MODULE - 4 National Integration 
and Secularism Contemporary India: Issues and Goals. pp. 202-2196 
H.A. Gani in National Integration Conference in Ratnaprava Barik and Jayanta Kumar Dash. rd 
“Political Science 3 Semester Paper-XIII: Society and Polity on India” p.25 also available in 
Gupshups
https://www.google.com/amp/s/gupshups.org/national-integration/amp/ accessed 19 
December, 20207 
Ole Frahm. 2012. “ Defining the Nation: National Identity in South Sudanese Media 
Discourse” in Africa Spectrum, 2012, Vol.47, No. 1. Pp.21-49. Accessed at 
www.jstor.org/stable/23350430, 11 September, 2020
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020478
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

ethnicity or culture, but enhance loyalty to the state for the 
common purpose of national development. However, that 
purpose must be defined or articulated by the state and 
embedded in the constitution.
The process of merging the diverse entities of a state is 
gradual and involves deliberate moves not only through the 
promulgation of laws and policies, but also through strong 
political will and commitment to implement same, and most 
importantly, citizenry's participation and cooperation. Thus, in 
the process of creating a homogenous political society, national 
integration progressively reduces socio-cultural and regional 8 
tensions and discontinuities.
Several strategies to aid national integration include but are 
not limited to education and constant orientation of the citizens, 
deliberate mobilisation of the people to relate with one another 
through different avenues, continuous propaganda on all 
media, good governance, economic and political stability, 
provision of basic infrastructure in both urban and rural areas, 
equality, inter- tribal/ethnic -marriages, national festivals, 
strong political will and commitment to implement 
laws/reforms and administer justice, and accountability across 9 
all sectors of the country, among others.
However, this is not achieved by one strategy alone, but a 
combination of several other factors in addition to freedom of 
movement, settlement and resettlement, freedom to trade and 
own property in any part of the country, indiscriminate policies 
on the basis of culture or/and religion, synchronization of 
cultural festivals and other valuable culture to form a national 
cultural identity. In other words, national integration in Nigeria 
would involve an amalgamation of complex factors to 
harmonise the diverse representations into a Nigerian identity 
with articulated ideology. 
According to Bala Mohammed, there are three types of 
8 
Coleman J. Rosberg C. (1964) definition of national integration in “12 Years of NYSC” 
accessible at the NYSC Archives, Abuja9 
Jawad Sha and Waseem Ishaque. 2017. “Challenges of National Integration in Pakistan 
and Strategic Response” ISSRA Papers, 2017. Pp.39-47
THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION IN NIGERIA, 1973-2020 479
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

national integration. They are: mutual integration, 
revolutionary integration and radical integration. Mutual 
integration means a national awareness that engenders peaceful 
co-existence. The radical type of integration occurs when the 
youths are compulsorily mobilised and objectively supervised 
by the mobilisers to force a national behaviour and bring about 
dynamic changes in various areas of their assignments. And 
revolutionary integration sets in afterwards when youths are 
given meaningful roles to play in an attempt to make changes 
that would impact on all the citizens and promote unity in 10
diversity.
Mutual integration, which entails a reciprocated kind of 
relations would in itself not foster peaceful relations. This is 
because the interactions among peoples in a country, whether 
they belong to the same or different groups, are not always 
peaceful. Conflict is bound to exist as ideas, perceptions, and 
interests among individuals may differ. Conflict is inevitable 
and so reciprocated relations, tolerance, understanding and 
acceptance should guide relations among diverse entities in a 
polity. The idea is to foster social harmony and promote socio-
economic and political wellbeing by removing hatred, strife, 11
inter-ethnic and religious conflicts among diverse groups.
All the three types of national integration mentioned above 
are aimed at rapid socio-economic and political development of 
a nation and are intrinsically interwoven. During interaction, the 
mobilisers, the mobilised and the society are expected to 
surrender to the objectives of the country for maximum impact. 
In other words, for a nation to radically integrate, the mobilisers, 
the mobilised and all citizens must be patriotic, hardworking, 
efficient and committed to the national objectives. According to 
the Native Nations Institute, the diverse groups in a country 
must put in efforts to increase their capacity for development 
10 
Bala Mohammed. “Exploring Different Concepts and Approaches to Youth 
Mobilization for National Development” a manuscript obtainable in NYSC 
Headquarters Library, Abuja. pp.22-2411 
Desmond Dinan . 2014. Europe Recast: A History of European Union SECOND EDITION. 
USA; Lynne Rienner pp.1-10
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020480
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

12 
and constructing a national identity. This is what is needed to 13
bring about meaningful national development.
Mobilisation could be in segments such as farmers' 
mobilisation, teachers' mobilisation and youth mobilisation so 
as to harness such groups for effective developmental projects. 
National youth integration promotes youths' desire to 
participate in the interest of national development. It involves 
radical mobilisation of youth for a common course to project and 
pursue national integration policy throughout the country. The 
motivation for youth mobilisation may be for political, social, 
economic, military or a combination of any of these. However, 
the general objective is usually for political stability and national 14 
development. This would not only unite the different entities 
and their economies, but also build the capacities of the people to 
attain such goals. In Nigeria, while various forms of mobilisation 
have been pursued over time, the national youth mobilisation 
has proven to be more enduring in uniting the different factions 
of the country.
National integration is the ultimate goal of every pluralistic 
society. A pluralist society is a society that comprises several 
ethnic groups, cultures, religions, and ideologies, among others. 
Thus, the pursuit of national integration is mostly peculiar to 
every multiethnic state.
The goal of national integration is development; whether 
social, economic or political. The development of the nation is 
invariably the development of people as enabling environment 
would be created for the people to thrive. In other words, 
“national integration is consistent with development in which 
diverse section of the society are provided with identical 
prospects and equal rights to enjoy several amenities devoid of 
12 
Native Nations institute in Evelyn Onwaniban. 2019. “The Military and Nation 
Building” in RIMA International Journal of Historical Studies (RIJHIS) ISSN:2672-4871, Vol 
3, No. 1, 2019, P. 333. ( pp.330-352)13 
Bala Mohammed. “Exploring Different Concepts and Approaches to Youth 
Mobilization for National Development” pp.22-2414 
Folorunso Kila, “Youth Mobilization for National Development: The Tanzanian 
Experience” p.34
THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION IN NIGERIA, 1973-2020 481
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

15 
any discrimination.” It is important to note that no society can 
thrive where there is discord and strife. This is because ethnic 
chauvinism, religious extremism, intolerance, hatred, 
discrimination, marginalisation, prolonged neglect, (extreme) 
poverty, illiteracy, inequality in economic status, education, 
provision of amenities and development, among others, bribery, 
corruption and lack of accountability, exploitation of national 
resources by internal and external forces, poor governance and 
mistrust of governance among others, create strife and are 
habitats of disunity and underdevelopment. However, good 
governance and the ability of government at different levels to 
provide a strong sense of national identity and an enabling 
environment for attracting investors and equal rights would, 
among others, breed cohesion and cooperation among multi 
groups which will in turn aid communal, regional and, 
invariably, national unity, peace, and progress. In other words, 
an enabling environment provided by leadership at different 
levels fosters national socio-economic and political 
development.
The policy of national integration has been pursued in 
Nigeria since independence. Some scholars argue that 
Nigerian's effort at achieving national integration has remained 
largely unrealised. Such scholars are also of the view that the 
problem of Nigeria has been one of national integration, 
pointing at ethnic identity politics, ethno-religious crises, 
minority crises, indigene-settler question, poor governance, 
resources control agitations and militancy/ terrorism in the 16 
country to buttress their point. While these situations have 
characterised the Nigerian society since independence, the 
problem of Nigeria has been more of leadership issues than 
national integration, though the two go hand in hand in that 
leadership influences the peoples' decision to either unite or 
15 
Jawad Sha and Waseem Ishaque. 2017. “Challenges of National Integration in Pakistan and 
Strategic Response” ISSRA Papers, 2017. Pp.35-4816 
Wonah I. Emmanuel. 2016, “ Identity politics and national integration in Nigeria” in Open 
Science Journal 1(3 ), https://doi.org/10.23954/osj.v2i1.376. Ifeanacho M. I and Nwagwu J. 
2009. “Democratization and National Integration in Nigeria” Research Journal of International 
Studies, Issue 9, Janyary, 2009.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020482
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

17  
disintegrate. Nigerian leaders, especially the politicians, have 
exploited the differences between and among the different 
ethno- religious groups to canvass support for their political 
agenda at the centre rather than emphasise the unity and 
harmonious relations that permeate the country spanning over 
four centuries before colonialism.
Studies on Nigerian history have shown that the issues that 
threaten national cohesion in Nigeria are rather political, and 
manifest especially during national elections when politicians 
exploit the religious and ethnic differences to achieve their 
selfish goals. At the social-economic angle, the different groups 
work in tandem and relate with one another in a relative 
peaceful way. Worthy of note is the fact that certain institutions 
in the country, such as the military, have been able to achieve this 
goal of national cohesion in near totality. What remains is to 
translate the gains into the larger polity.
National integration is not only about peace and unity 
among diverse entities in a nation(state), but much more about 
their ability to fight against any tendencies that would 
jeopardise such peace, unity and progress. A country that has 
achieved this goal is able to confront intending and prevailing 
internal and external challenges effectively as its factions are 
able to pull forces together to fight for their common national 
interest.
Several integrative mechanisms have been put in place by 
successive administrations (civilian and military) towards 
national integration in Nigeria since independence. These 
integrative mechanisms include state creation, centralisation of 
powers, promulgation of laws, creation of unity school and 18 
mobilisation of certain interest groups, among others. The 
17 
Onwaniban Evelyn. 2019. “The Problem of Nigeria” in Evelyn's Search Life https:// 
sucheevelynonwaniban.blogspot.com/2019/05/the-problem-of-nigeria.html retrieved 
23 December, 202018 
Nigerian Army Information Briefs, September, 2008. “The Nigerian Army and National 
Integration: A Case Study of Murtala/Obasanjo Regime 1975-1979. Pp. 5-7. Note: while 
states were created to manage the problems of minority question which partly bred 
ethnic rivalry and tensions, it has not solve the problem of minority, it has rather widened 
the gap of national consciousness.
THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION IN NIGERIA, 1973-2020 483
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

establishment of the NYSC is one such ways to effectively 
enhance national integration in the country. The need for 
national cohesion became a focal point in the 1960s when the 
separative movements threatened not only the unity of the state, 
but also the existence of Nigeria as a sovereign state.
Post-Independence Nigeria and the Challenge of National 
Integration, 1960-1973
As a multi-ethnic state, Nigeria comprises over 300 peoples with 
different histories of migrations and culture domiciled in their 
present locations - traditional or ancestral homes - for two or 19 
more centuries. Prior to the amalgamation of 1914, the diverse 
ethnic groups operated relative independent states and had 
varied interactions, ranging from friendly to hostile relations 
through trade, migrations, re-settlement, inter-marriages, 
conflicts and war, among others. Thus, in the various regions, 
several powerful kingdoms, empires, and acephalous societies 
emerged, and dominated socio-economic and political 
activities. For instance, Oyo Empire, Benin Kingdom, Borno 
Empire, the city-sates of the Niger-Delta, Sokoto caliphate, Nupe 
Kingdom, Kwararafa State, Jukun empire, Igala Kingdom, 
Birom, Tiv societies, Igbo and Ibibio confederacy, comprised the 
independent nations, among others. All these states were 
forcefully merged together by the colonial government into one 
geographical entity in 1914 for the economic and political 20
interests of the British government.
The foundation for the division of Nigerian peoples along 
ethnic and political lines was laid during the colonial period. 
According to Tamuno Tekena, foreign rule itself was an avenue 
19 
Abdul Raufu Mustapha. 2006. Ethnic Structure, Inequality and Governance of the Public Sector in 
Nigeria. United Democracy Governance and Human Rights Programme Paper, 24 November, 
2006, United Nations Research Institute for Social Development (UNRISD), Switzerland.
P.iv. See also “Full List of all 371 Tribes in Nigeria, States where they Originate” in Vanguard 
News, May 10, 2017   10:45pm,   https:www.vanguardngr.com/category/national-news/ 
accessed 22 December, 202020 
National Archives Kaduna, Ilorin Profile, 2700. Report by Sir. F.D. Lugard on the 
Amalgamation of Northern and Southern Nigeria and Administration 1912-1919.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020484
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

for discord among the peoples of the country as they were 
21 
forcefully brought under one political setting. This 
development was facilitated by the Richards Constitution of 
1946, which led to the division of the country into three separate 
regions, namely: northern, western and eastern regions. With 
the creation of regions in the country, Nigeria became 
geographically, ethnically, and religiously divided with the 
northern region housing most of the Muslim group and having 
Hausa and Fulani as the dominant ethnic group; the west with 
mixed religion was mostly Yoruba and the eastern region having 
mainly Christians has as its dominant ethnic group, the Igbo. 
This composition in itself pitched the major ethnic group against 
the minority groups who clamour for fair representation at the 
helm of affairs, recognition, access to basic facility and economic 
inclusion, among others. Regionalism became a tool of 
exploitation for the politicians who exploited the cultural and 
22
religious divide to their advantage.
Regional politics that preceded the independence of the 
country revealed the wide sentiments and divide among the 
various groups of the nation. This was manifested in the various 
political parties that were founded, which had regional and 
ethnic affiliations. They were National Council of Nigeria and 
the Cameroon (NCNC), later renamed National Council of 
Nigerian Citizens, Northern People's Congress (NPC), Action 
G r o u p  ( A G ) ,  w h i c h  m e t a m o r p h o s e d  f r o m  
EgbeOmoOdududwa, Northern Element Progressive Union 
(NEPU), United Middle Belt Congress (UMBC), among others. 
Each of these political parties dominated the politics of their 
respective regions in the period between 1950 and 1960. 
However, there were other factors including minority agitation, 
neglect, underdevelopment of the rural areas, segregation 
21 
Tekana N. Tamuno. 1970. “Seperatist Agitations in Nigeria since 1914” in the Journal of 
Modern Africa Studies, Vol. 8, no. 4, December, 1970. Pp.563-584 accessed in https:// 
www.jstor.org/stable/15909022
Tekena N. Tamuno and J.A.Atanda Eds. Nigeria Since Independence: The First Twenty Five 
Years Volume IV Government and Public Policy Ibadan: Heinemann Educational Books 
Nigeria Ltd, 1989.
THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION IN NIGERIA, 1973-2020 485
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

policies and land disputes that created problems which tended 
to undermine age long peaceful relations among the people. 
Tamuno Tekena added that foreign rule itself was an avenue for 
discord among the peoples of the country as they were forcefully 23 
brought under one political setting.
With the attainment of political independence in 1960, the 
pursuit of national integration became one of the political 
objectives of the government of the First Republic, 1960-1966. 
The government of the First Republic promoted national 
integration through the introduction of Republican Constitution 
in 1963, adoption of federalism by the 1963 constitution and the 
creation of Mid-West Region in 1964. The process of national 
integration during the First Republic was hampered by the kind 
of politics being played by the Nigerian politicians during this 
period. Major political developments that occurred in Nigeria 
with major negative consequences on the pursuit of national 
integration during this Republic include the issue of 
irregularities and malpractices in the 1962/1963 census figures 
and the 1964-1964 Federal and Western Regional elections 
among others. The tensions that emanated from these created 
chaos that disrupted the peace and unity in the country. Politics 
at the centre was marred by selfishness, godfatherism, nepotism, 
political rivalry and intimidation as politicians tended to pursue 
individual gains rather than represent the interest of the people 
at large. The process of national integration was compounded by 
ethno-religious clashes and loyalties, intra-party conflict, 
corruption, poor leadership and the absence of a strong national 24 
ideological magnet that would sustain mass appeal. The main 
consequence of these political crises and disorderliness was the 
collapse of the First Republic and the emergence of military rule 
in 1966, occasioned by the January 15, 196 coup. With the 
emergence of military rule in 1966, the pursuit of national 
23 
Tekana N. Tamuno. 1970. “Seperatist Agitations in Nigeria since 1914” in the Journal of Modern 
Africa Studies, Vol. 8, no. 4, December, 1970. Pp.563-584 accessed in https:// 
www.jstor.org/stable/15909024 
Tekana N. Tamuno. 1970. “Seperatist Agitations in Nigeria since 1914” in the Journal of Modern 
Africa Studies, Vol. 8, no. 4, December, 1970. Pp.564-567 accessed in https:// 
www.jstor.org/stable/159090
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020486
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

integration took a new dimension. The emergent Head of State, 
Gen. Aguyi Ironsi, introduced a unitary system of government 
which was short lived, as the existence of factions in the military 
led to a counter coup that ushered in Gen. Yakubu Gowon as the 
Head of State. Soon after his appointment and following inter-
ethnic crises in the north, threats of secession in the south and 
deterioration of relations between various factions in the 
military and governance, Gowon divided the regions of the 
country into twelve states to address the problems of minorities 
and political representations. However, lingering ethno-
religious and political problems, the military coup and counter 
coup and distrust among ethnic groups soon led to riots and 
indiscriminate killings of Igbo in the north which eventually led 
to a secessionist bid by the Igbo, led by Ojukwu Odumegwu, 25
which plunged the country into a civil war.
The protracted civil war fought in 1967-1970, following the 
declaration of Biafra Republic by the Igbo, did not only widen 
the gap between the various ethnics; it also devastated the 
country in terms of massive loss of lives, money and 
infrastructures, among others. During the civil war, Gen. 
Gowon successfully deployed troops to fight and reunite the 
country. In the face of the multiple challenges to the sovereignty 
that resulted from the bloody civil war and the need to 
reintegrate the varied factions of the war, it became imperative 
to reunite the various peoples and cultures together. Hence, it 
was to avoid the political pitfalls of this early period, restructure 
the economy and reunite the peoples of the country that the 
policy of Restructuring, Re-integration and Re- organisation 
was launched. Gen. Gowon established the Universal Primary 
Education (UPE) and, the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) 
in 1973 as post-war strategies to achieve this goal; to utilise the 
youths by indiscriminately deploying them to different part of 
25 
Alabi-Isama Godwin. 2013. “Forward I” The Tragedy of Victory: On the Spot Account of the 
Nigerian Biafran War in the Atlantic Theartre. Ibadan; Spectrum Books. P.45-55, see also, 
“Independenct Nigeria” in Britannica https://www.britannica.com/place/Nigeria/ 
independent-Nigeria accessed 21 December, 2020
THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION IN NIGERIA, 1973-2020 487
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

the country to boost cultural understanding and tolerance, 
resettlement, development and to inculcate the spirit of 
oneness and a clear sense of identity among the diverse 
26 
ethno-religious groups. The reviews of the scheme by 
various scholars and several others have affirmed that the 
NYSC no doubt has aided the fulfillment of national 
integration, although certain factors have continued to 
inhibit the progress of the programme.
The NYSC and National Integration in Nigeria
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) is a deliberate policy 
that was promulgated in 1973 to foster a spirit of national 
consciousness among the people in the country. Its rationale was 
driven by the need to forestall ethnic chauvinism and conflicts, 
self-determination bids and possible disintegration of the 
country, especially following the experience of the country after 
27 
the civil war of 1967-1970. Following Decree No 24 May, 1973, 
promulgated under the government of General Yakubu Gowon, 
the Head of State at the time, the NYSC was introduced. 
According to Decree No. 51, June 1993(revised), the NYSC was 
charged with the task of imbibing in Nigerian graduate youths 
the spirit of selflessness and the virtue of oneness regardless of 
their socio- cultural, economic and religious background; 
instilling in youths the virtue of discipline, hard work, self-
reliance and patriotism; developing communities, improving 
the spirit of cooperation and peaceful co-existence among the 
diverse groups in the country, and promoting national unity and 28 
cohesion, among others. The NYSC marks the completion of the 
first degree educational process in Nigeria as those who have 
passed the assigned age are issued letters of exemption from the 
scheme. By the above policy, “youths were to be assigned to 
states other than their origins as representatives of the country to 
26 
Onwaniban Evelyn. 2019. “Military Rule and Nation Building” Rima International 
Journal of Historical Studies (RIJHIS) ISSN: 2672-4871, Vol. 3, no. 1, January, 2019. p. 34527 
National Youth Service Corp (NYSC) Handbook 1973. Decree and Amendment NO. 
28, Vol. 60, May 23, Part A.28 
NYSC Hand Book Revised in 1999.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020488
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

expose them to the ways of life of different cultural groups in 
other to foster understanding, remove prejudice, eliminate 
ignorance and confirm at first hand the many similarities among 29 
Nigerians of all ethnic groups.” Hence, the policy has as its 
major goal peaceful-coexistence and harmony among Nigerian. 
Its aim is to eliminate every form of ethnic animosity and 
grievances that have pervaded the country since amalgamation 
as epitomised in the eventualities that led to the breakdown of 
peace in the early post independent era.
By the policy that initiated this scheme, youths were not only 
to work but to engage in community services and programmes 
that would help them interact with the host communities in 
order to have deep insights into the local traditions and customs 
of the people as these would help achieve the goals of reducing 30 
prejudices and fostering cultural understanding and tolerance.
Hence, corps members are given orientation on these goals to 
better prepare them for the task of national integration and 
development.
The NYSC is arguably the biggest youth mobilisation agency 
in the world that is aimed at promoting relationships and 
reducing conflicts. It hopes to democratise the society and 31 
enhance national development. Its mobilisation is done in such 
a way that persons of particular ethnic group are deployed to 
regions other than their ethnic regions for a period of one year 
where they work and live in those communities, and are 
provided monthly stipends by the Federal Government for their 
sustenance. In some cases, corps members also get allowances 
from their Places of Primary Assignment (PPA).
In the youth mobilisation, there had been modification 
overtime to incorporate graduates across all tertiary institutions, 
29 
National Youth Service Corp (NYSC) Handbook 1973. Section 4 of the Decree No 24, 
May 1973.30 
NYSC 1983. “A Compendium of National Youth Service Corps: Ten Years of Service to 
the Nation. NYSC Directorate; Lagos31 
NYSC News OCNODE512019. “Buhari: NYSC must Continue …” and “NYSC- 
Catalyst for National Development-Gen. Yakubu Gowon” A Journal of NYSC Directorate 
Headquarters 2019. see also, Ben Agande. “Don't Scrap NYSC-Jega. Vanguard, Thursday 
June 2, 2011. P. 11
THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION IN NIGERIA, 1973-2020 489
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

universities, polytechnics, and colleges of education. Nigerian 
graduates from overseas are also allowed to participate as the 32 
policy also makes provision for them to serve their fatherland.
Their deployment to different regions to bridge the cultural and 
religious gaps in the various regions have helped to foster 
understanding and tolerance to a large extent. Apart from their 
places of work where corps members interact with colleagues, 
their involvement in Community Development Service (CDS) 
has enabled them (the corps members) interact directly with the 
people in their host communities.
It is important to note that the NYSC has become an effective 
tool in mobilising all educated youths for national 33 
development. Thus, government should consider a similar 
scheme for youths who are unable to attain the educational 
qualification required for participation in the scheme, or 
government should modify the NYSC to embrace all categories 
of youths in the country to engender humongous impact in the 
towards national integration. In this regard, a post-secondary 
school mobilisation as adopted in Tanzania, where the youth are 
trained in various skills including military and police training, 
vocational skills and modern farming techniques, could be 
adopted for the category of youths that have not attained the 34 
prerequisite educational qualification at the age of 30. This will 
better equip them to be self-sufficient and less dependent on the 
country for survival, and also aid national development which is 
central to the philosophy the NYSC.
At this juncture, it is important  to note that successive 
governments, non-governmental organisations and private 
initiatives have launched series of vocational programmes in 
times past, including the Youth Entrepreneurship Development 35 
Programme (YEDP) launched in March 2016 and October 7, 
32 
NYSC Library. “12 Years Of NYSC”33 
National Service for the 80s: Report on the Proceedings of the Workshop on the NYSC 
Scheme, Kano, kano State, 26-28 May, 1980. P.2.34 
Folorunso Kila, “Youth Mobilization for National Development: The Tanzanian 
Experience” p.36-3735 
Central Bank of Nigeria. “Youth Entrepreneurship Development Programme https:// 
www.cbn.gov.ng/Devfin/yedp.asp accessed 12 Octover, 2020
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020490
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

2020, #75 billion Nigerian Youth Investment Fund to sustain the 36 
youths. Great as these initiates are, their impacts would be 
encompassing if the youths are mobilised compulsorily for these 
programmes, such as is the case in the NYSC.
Apart from promoting national harmony in the country, the 
selfless services rendered by corps members in national service 
have promoted transformation and the socio-economic 37 
development of the country over time. Corps members have, 
over time, identified and implemented several developmental 
projects in their communities of service including water projects, 
educational programmes, equipping of libraries and computer 
laboratories, renovation of schools, sanitation services and, 38 
even, resolution of disputes, among other community services.
It must however be stated that while the developmental projects 
embraced by youth corps members are welcomed, it reveals the 
failure or inability of various local governments and their states 
to deliver effectively and develop their places of jurisdiction. 
Hence, corps members have become saddled with the 
responsibilities of delivering certain projects lacking in the 39 
communities. Often times, the funds generated for these 
projects are from their personal purses. This in itself is unhealthy 
for the youths, considering the meager allowances paid to them 
and the uncertainty they may face after their service year, due to 
the high unemployment rate in the country. The dearth of 
infrastructures especially in rural communities hampers the 
goals of national integration, as most corps members are forced 
to redeploy to urban centres and those who manage to stay, 
36 
Abiola Odutola. “N75 Billion Nigerian Youth Investment Fund to be rolled out before the 
end of October-Minister” https://www.cbn.gov.ng/Devfin/yedp.asp accessed 12 
October, 202037   
Adeola J. Afolayan et al. “Address   by the director General   of NYSC Brig. Gen.   
Ibraham
D.D. PHD MTRCN at the Opening Ceremony of the NYSC Freedom of Information Desk th   
Officers Workshop held on Friday 14 June, 2019 at Rockview Hotel (Royale) Wuse II, 
Abuja. P.3638
Vanguard, Thursday Nov 24,  2011. P.18, see also, Vanguard, Wednesday October 8, 2014. P.3239 
Adeola J. Afolayan et al. “Address by the Director General of the NYSC Brig. Gen. Ibrahim 
D.D. PHD MTRCN at the Opening Ceremony of the NYSC Freedom of Information Desk th   
Officers Workshop held on Friday 14 June, 2019 at Rockview Hotel (Royale) Wuse II, 
Abuja. P.36
THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION IN NIGERIA, 1973-2020 491
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

relocate to urban centres after their service year. Government at 
various levels should be held accountable for the revenues 
allocated to them and not leave their core responsibilities to 
youths who are supposed to be assisted to become independent 
nationals of the country. In other words, if various governments 
play their roles effectively, youths who are deployed to the 
communities would utilise their meagre resources for other 
personal investments that may make them not only to be self-
employed but also employers of labour in the various 
communities, rather than channel their savings to providing 
basic amenities in the communities where they serve.
A major area in which the NYSC has fostered national 
integration in the country is through inter-ethnic marriages. 
Other areas include improved physical health and spots 
development among the youth, and community developmental 40 
projects. Through extra-curricular activities such as volleyball 
and football where teams play against each other, as well as 
inter-state corps members sport activities, the scheme is able to 
unify and foster friendly relations between and among corps 
members. As subtle as it may seem, through inter-state sport 
competition among corps members, primordial ties are being 
removed, consequently paving way for greater acceptance of 
other cultures, and national affiliation. This is especially so, 
given that corps members participate as representatives of the 
states where they are being posted to rather than their states of 41
origin.
No doubt, the NYSC has served as avenue for young people 
to meet and interact, as well as a platform that merges the 
destinies of many through friendships and marriages initiated 
during the service year. The NYSC policy encourages inter-
ethnic marriages among corps members and provides support 
for them. This is especially so for corps members that get 
40 
A.O. Sanda. 1976. “Problem and Prospects of the National Youth Service in Nigeria” 
Report Submitted to the Nigerian Institute of Social and Economic Research, university of 
Ibadns, April 1976, see also, Femi A. Adetunji . “National Youth Service Corps “NYSCAT 
15”41 
Gregory Enegwea and Gabriel Umoden. 1993. NYSC: Twenty Years of National Service. 
NYSC Directorate Headquarters; Abuja
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020492
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

42 
married during their service year. The NYSC has recorded 
several marriages among its serving corps members. Terfe 
Kende, a Tiv, who served in Osun state met and got married to 
Abiola (a corps member of Yoruba origin) during their service 43 
year in 2010. In similar vein, Sunday Samuel and Ugochi 
Nwanguna from Edo and Imo states respectively courted 
during their service year in Ogun State in 2007 and 44
consummated their marriage after their service year.
Apart from marriages between serving corps members, 
some persons posted to different communities meet their 
heartthrobs who are resident there and conjugate their relations. 
This has also aided resettlement of some corps members 
subsequently. It has enabled participants of the scheme to 
understand the cultural dynamics of the varied peoples and 45 
cultures of the country. According to Barrister Tope 
Aiyedogbon, “The NYSC has improved inter-tribal marriages 
between corps member. Apart from marriages between corps 
members during their service year, some corps members who 
court during this period conjugate their relationships 
afterwards. Many others meet their spouses who are non 
'corpers' during the service year. I know certain persons (who 
are my friends) who met their spouses during their service year. 
Some of them even got married to husbands from different tribes 
and religions. A particular captain (name withheld) in the 
military who is my friend married his wife, a fellow corps 
member too, during their service year. The NYSC has also 
enabled youths to develop new ideas and establish businesses in 46 
their places of their national service.” For Patience 
Onwuaniban, “most of the people that have connected me to 
businesses and clients are friends I met during my service year in 47 
Lagos.” Paul Ikechukwu also holds this view as he credits most 
42 
National Youth Service Corps By Law 1993.43 
Interview with Terfa Kende,    age 37 in Abuja   on 12October, 202044 
Interview held with Sunday Samuel, age 44, in Lagos on 22 December, 202045 
Simon Kolawole and Eniola Bello. “NYSC: Still Worth its Ideals?” This Day, Vol. 16, No. 
5853, Tuesday May 3, 2011. P.1946 th   
Interview with Barrister (Mrs.) Tope Ayedogbon, age 37, at Abuja on 12 October, 202047 
Interview with Patience Onwuaniban, age 34, in Lagos, 22 December, 2020
THE NYSC AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION IN NIGERIA, 1973-2020 493
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

48 
of his achievements to friends made during his service year.
Through friendships and inter-ethnic marriages, the NYSC has 
helped to reduce prejudices, increased the bonds of 
understanding and promote harmony among Nigerian youths, 
their families and associates.
Conclusion
This chapter interrogated the historical trajectory of the 
challenge of national integration in Nigeria from the colonial 
period. It argued that the foundation of ethnic chauvinism in the 
post-independence Nigeria was laid during the colonial period. 
However, since independence, several structural mechanisms 
have been put in place to promote national integration in the 
country. One of these mechanisms was the introduction of 
National Youth Service Corps (NYSC). Through inter-
marriages, CDS, sports development and a wide range of 
interactions among the youths and communities of the country, 
the NYSC has succeeded in fostering cross-cultural values, 
understanding, appreciation and respect for the varied cultural 
values and created a lot of opportunities for enhancing youth 
geographical knowledge of the country. Undoubtedly, the 
NYSC remains one of the major enduring structural 
mechanisms for promoting national integration among 
Nigerian youths in particular and the entire country in general.
48 
Interview with Paul Ikechukwu, age 57, in Abuja, 13 October, 2020
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020494
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Chapter Sixteen
NYSC AND NATIONAL ELECTIONS IN 
NIGERIA
Albert Onobhayedo
Department of History & International Studies
University of Benin
Benin, Nigeria.
Introduction
The policy of deploying members of the National Youth Service 
Corps (NYSC) as ad hoc electoral staff in Nigeria is inextricably 
tied to the desire to solve the manpower problems that beset the 
electoral process in the country. Over the years, despite the 
aberrant intrusion of the military into politics and governance, 
Nigeria has made overt efforts at anchoring its political structure 
on democratic principle.  Invariably, policies, institutions, and 
modalities, of which elections constitute a critical component, 
were contrived to drive the process. The resultant elections and 
democratic experiments, nevertheless, have been fraught with 
anomalies and a perturbing credibility crisis. Institutional 
failure has reinforced this experience, given the inability of the 
national electoral body, in several instances, to  ensure 
transparency, probity, fairness, equity and to recruit capable 
hands, including ad hoc staff, while discharging its statutory 
role of conducting elections in Nigeria. The failure of the 
Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), in this 
regard, is underscored by the fact that several of the election 
results it proclaimed have been overturned by the judiciary at an 
alarming frequency. Gubernatorial results have been nullified 
and overturned in states such as Oyo (2007 election), Ekiti (2007), 1
Edo (2007), Zamfara (2019) and Imo (2019) . Also, between 
1
 Governorshp Elections: Cases of Nullified Elections, Vanguard Newspaper, November 
26, 2010 and Information obtained from INEC office, Benin City.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

November 2019 and January 2020, INEC conducted twenty- 2
eight re-run elections arising from thirty court orders.   
Inadequate performance by INEC personnel, including ad hoc 
staff, who were, hitherto, drawn from teachers and members of 
the public, is implicated in this experience.  In order to stem the 
tide of this untoward development, INEC has sought solution 
from several fronts, especially in the area of electoral reforms. 
The policy of utilizing members of the National Youth Service 
Corps (NYSC) as ad hoc electoral staff resonates in the attempts 
made to improve on the electoral process. The background of the 
corps members, in “learning and character”, as polytechnic and 
university graduates, supposedly, predisposes them as 
trainable and potentially competent ad hoc personnel that could 
make a difference; hence the recourse to the extant collaboration 
between INEC and NYSC on the matter. The issues analysed in 
this chapter include the emergence of INEC and NYSC, the MoU 
between both organisations, the deployment of corps members 
as ad hoc INEC staff before and after the MoU, as well as the 
training, remuneration, accommodation, safety concerns and 
benefit associated with the partnership.
Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) 
The electoral body in Nigeria has adopted various appellations 
and acronyms over the years. From its inception and tag during 
the colonial period – Electoral Commission of Nigeria (ECN) – it 
metamorphosed and assumed new names through 
constitutional reviews, which reflect the evolution of its 
statutory role and modalities of operation. At Independence, it 
quickly morphed into the Federal Electoral Commission (FEC). 
Even at this stage, the challenge of getting enough competent 
hands to man polling units had started to rear its head, 
constraining FEC to rely substantially on ad hoc staff during the 
1964 and 1965 elections. The quest for improvement under the 
Olusegun Obasanjo military regime resulted in the replacement 
2
 INEC Set to Conduct 28 r-run in 11 states, Newsletter- Situationroom, Nigerian Civil 
Society, January 21, 2020, 
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020496
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

of FEC with the Federal Electoral Commission (FEDECO), 
which conducted the 1979 and 1983 elections, both of which 
were won by Alhaji Shehu Shagari. By 1987, the tag FEDECO 
gave way to the National Electoral Commission (NEC) under the 
Ibrahim Babangida regime, which, among others, 
superintended the June 12, 1993 elections, relying, markedly, on 3
ad hoc staff.  Under General Sani Abacha, who became Nigerian 
Head of State in 1994, a new electoral body was constituted and 
christened National Electoral Commission of Nigeria (NECON) 
but did not survive the death of Sani Abacha in 1997. Further 
revision under Abdulsalami Abubarkar in 1998, resulted in the 
extant form and tag – Independent National Electoral 
Commission (INEC). So far, INEC has conducted the 1999, 2003, 
2007, 2011, 2015, 2019 general elections as well as the 
gubernatorial elections in Edo and Ondo states in September 4
and October 2020 respectively.  INEC exercises a constitutional 5
mandate that the Electoral Act of 2010 has reaffirmed.  The 
statute charged INEC with the responsibility of organizing 
federal and state elections, registering and regulating the 
activities of political parties, providing voter education, 
conducting voter registration and employing the required staff.  
In addition to its full-time staff, and in order to discharge these 
functions effectively, provision was made for the recruitment, 
training and deployment of ad hoc staff. And since 2007, 
National Youth Service Corps members have featured 
consistently as ad hoc Presiding Officers (POs) and Assistant 
Presiding Officers (APOs) during national elections in Nigeria. 
Prior to this time, “ad hoc staff were drawn from government 
institutions and private individuals, who had no definite 
records of verifiable addresses, the use of ad hoc staff was 
3
 Shehu Bello Harris, “Assessing the participation of Youth Corps Members in the 2015 Electoral 
Process in Nigeria”, https://www.inecnigeria.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/02/Conference-
Paper-by-Shehu-Bello-Idris.pdf.4
 Shehu Bello Harris, “Assessing the participation of Youth Corps Members in the 2015 Electoral 
Process in Nigeria”5
Sam Itodo, “Elections and Youths: The Case of Nigeria”, ACE Project, 
h t t p : / / a c e p r o j e c t . o r g / a c e - e n / t o p i c s / e m / e l e c t i o n s - a n d - y o u t h / t h e - c a s e - o f -
nigeria/mobile_browsing/onePag
NYSC AND NATIONAL ELECTIONS IN NIGERIA 497
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

characterized by various electoral malfeasance, which 6
undermined the integrity of elections”.  
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC)
The NYSC is a statutory agency of the federal government, a 
brain child of the General Yakubu Gowon regime. It was 
established on the heel of the Nigerian civil war, in tandem with 
the motive of postwar reconstruction and quest for national 
unity. The events leading to the civil war and the three years of 
battle had skewed the orientation of Nigerian youths towards 
ethnic chauvinism and nepotistic tendencies. The mass 
migration of the Easterners from Northern and Western Nigeria 
had created distrust and scars in the demographic configuration 
of Nigeria.  Mutual trust had gone with the wind, and the 
prospect of a political structure based on the democratic 
principle was bleak.  The realities, challenges and aftermath of 
the civil war necessitated the invention of new ways of 
strengthening and stretching the frontier of nation building. In 
the light of this, the Yakubu Gowon regime established the 
NYSC with the NYSC Decree of 1973, reaffirmed in the Youth 
Service Corps Decree of 1993 and National Youth Service Corps 7
Act Cap N84 Laws of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.   
Arising from this, NYSC authorities were charged to ensure 
the “equitable distribution of members of the service corps and 
the effective utilization of their skills in areas of national needs” 
which does not preclude elections. Although, officiating in 
elections was not overtly spelt out in the stated objectives, article 
14, section 9 of the statute legitimized the deployment of youth 
corps members to “undertaking and projects the President, 
Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces may by order 8
determine”.  Despite argument to the contrary, this clause 
indicates that corps members are “amenable to mobilization in 
the national interests”, thus, providing the latitude for the 
6
 Sam Itodo, “Elections and Youths: The Case of Nigeria”. 7
 NYSC Decree, available in NYSC Secretariat Abuja and Benin City. Also available for 
download at www.nysc.gov.ng>download>nysc-decree.8
 NYSC Decree, available in NYSC Secretariat Abuja and Benin City. Also available for 
download at www.nysc.gov.ng>download>nysc-decree.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020498
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

government to initiate the understanding between NYSC and 
INEC. 
The road to the partnership was checkered. At no point was 
it taken for granted by parents, the corps members, and even 
NYSC authorities that the NYSC project was automatically 
aligned to the manpower need of INEC. Hence, the emerging 
relationship between INEC and NYSC has been attended by 
debates regarding its legality.  Despite the clauses seemingly 
approving of a partnership between both agencies in the stated 
objectives of NYSC, the terms of reference of both organisations 
did not directly intersect. The NYSC programme provided for a 
two-tier assignment, namely, primarily assignment and 
community service. Some critics have argued that ad hoc 
electoral assignment was not envisaged in this structure. For 
instance, a human right lawyer, Kayode Ajulo, has vehemently 
queried the legality of involving corps members in ad hoc 9
electoral jobs.  He averred that the policy was inconsistent with 
the statutory duties of a corps member. This implies that the idea 
negates the notion of primary assignment and community 
service as enshrined in the NYSC Act. To strengthen his 
arguments, he drew attention to the exposure of corps members 
to violence and corruption, which have characterized elections 
in Nigeria.  He also foregrounds his position on the argument 
that corps members are barred by law from taking up any other 
paid jobs while in service.  According to him, “once you are in 
national service, you are not supposed to take up any 
remuneration apart from allowances, so, INEC is violating the 10
law”.  In a similar tone, but for a different reason, a local 
government Chairman, Emmanuel Bamgboye posited that 11  
youth corpers should not be employed in future elections.
Unlike Ajulo who based his objections on the legality of the idea, 
9
 Lawyer Threatens to Sue INEC for Using CORPERS as ad hoc Election Workers, Punch, 
March 1, 201910
 Lawyer Threatens to Sue INEC for Using CORPERS as ad hoc Election Workers, Punch, 
March 1, 201911
 “Don't Hire Corpers for Future Elections Council Chairman warn”, Punch, March 9, 
2019.
NYSC AND NATIONAL ELECTIONS IN NIGERIA 499
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Bamgboye emphasized inexperience, youthful exuberance and 
incompetence in handling statistical figures.  He stated that: 
In subsequent elections, I will advise INEC not to use 
corps members because most of them are inexperience, 
some of them cannot write figures very well, while 
most of them are not capable and are not exposed to this 12
type of election duties previously.  
However, this argument runs counter to the accolades and 
encomiums, which several personalities and observers, as we 
shall see, have showered on corps members over superior 
conduct during elections.  Bamgboye's vituperation could have 
been influenced by some corps members' legitimate protest over 
the non-payment of their allowances in the course of the 2019 
elections in Mushin Local Government area, which rattled INEC 13
and resulted in delay in the electoral process.
In order to decipher the raison d'être for the integration of 
corps members into electoral assignments, attention must be 
paid to the manpower problem that have characterized the 
conduct of elections in Nigeria. Giving its population of about 
200 million people, Nigeria constitutes a vast electoral field, 
perhaps only surpassed, in terms of numerical statistics by the 
United States, China, India, Pakistan and Brazil. At 
independence, Nigeria already had a population of 45 million 14
people to grapple with.  At the time of the 2011 election, it had 15
risen to 160 million and 200 million in 2020.  At no point in 
Nigeria's electoral history have the staff of the electoral 
commission sufficed in dealing with the task of conducting 
elections in the country.  With over 120,000 polling units to 
contend with, INEC require, at least 700,000 personnel, 
12
 “Don't Hire Corpers for Future Elections Council Chairman warn”, Punch, March 9, 
2019.13
 “Don't Hire Corpers for Future Elections Council Chairman warn”, Punch, March 9, 
2019.14
 Nigerian Population, WORLD Population Review.com15
 Nigerian Population, WORLD Population Review.com, Nigerian population census 
figures and estimates are also available in Nigerian Population Commission
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020500
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

16
including 675,000 ad hoc staff to conduct elections . Typically, 
every polling unit required a minimum of a Presiding Officer 
(PO), Assistant Presiding Officer 1 (APO 1), Assistant Presiding 
Officer 2 (APO 2) and Assistant Presiding Officer 3 (APO 3). In 
addition to these positions, returning and collating officers are 
required at the local government, state and federal levels.  This 
has necessitated the recourse to ad hoc staff, over the years.  
Corps members were introduced to augment and shore up 
the quality of ad hoc staff. Going by the enabling law, only 
graduates of tertiary institutions are deemed qualified to be 
absorbed into the NYSC programme. This has, definitely, 
facilitated capacity building towards the successful conduct of 
elections in Nigeria, leveraging on the notion of certificate 
earned in learning and character, reinforced by three weeks of 
national orientation and civic education in NYSC camps. 
Another consideration was the exogenous character of a corps 
member, vis-a-vis, his state of origin and place of service. By law, 
corps members are expected to serve outside their state of origin 
and, therefore, expected to be apolitical as none stakeholders in 
local politics in communities where they carry out their primary 
and INEC assignments.  Ipso facto, they are less likely to pervert 
electoral procedures. Also, their recruitment as ad hoc staff 
aligns with the global trend where the youths have become 
instruments of social change through the social media and non-
governmental organizations. The wave of violence that followed 
the 1999, 2003 and 2007 elections called for a re-evaluation of the 
place of the youths in Nigerian elections. Their susceptibility to 
manipulation by politicians who galvanize them towards 
violence during elections became an issue of concern. Therefore, 
the National Youth Policy of 2009 called for a new orientation 17
and better opportunities for the youths in national affairs.  The 
INEC-NYSC partnership dovetailed into this desire.
16 
This is the estimated at the time of the 2015 election. 17
 Sam Itodo, “Elections and Youths: The Case of Nigeria”.
NYSC AND NATIONAL ELECTIONS IN NIGERIA 501
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Deployment of Youth Corps Members as Ad Hoc Staff in 
Nigerian Elections 
Information and documentary evidence on the earliest attempt 
to deploy corps members as ad hoc staff during elections in 
Nigeria are scanty. While most of the existing studies on the 
subject matter and even the MoU of 2013 point to the 2007 
election, an informant, Dr John Abhuere, credited Ibrahim 18
Babangida's regime with the first attempt.  In line with the 
reputation acquired by the regime for novel political formations 
such as open ballot, the INEC Chairman, Humphrey Nwosu, 
considering NYSC as a reservoir of high quality manpower, 
approved the utilization of corps members as ad hoc electoral 
officers in the 1993 general elections. This pioneering attempt 
proceeded without recourse to a comprehensive MoU, 
leveraging on the administrative fiat associated with military 
regimes. The corps members who participated at this stage, were 
mostly recruited from their places of primary assignment, 
without a proper delineation of the terms and condition 
attached. Although their involvement under Ibrahim Babangida 
did not blossom as a large-scale project, as only a handful were 
involved, it remained a landmark and a prolegomenon to 
subsequent developments. INEC authorities had hoped that, 
afterwards, the idea will be promptly developed and 
concretized as a collaborative policy between them and NYSC.  
However, the idea suffered a setback with the annulment of 
June 12, 1993, general election. By the annulment, the hand that 
rocked the cradle also truncated the electoral process and the 
innovations that came with it. Consequently, the utilization of 
corps members as electoral officers was jettisoned in the 1999 
and 2003 elections.  It was not revisited until the 2007 general 19
elections.  The impetus for the renewed interest derived from 
President Umaru Musa Yar'Adua critique of the elections that 
brought him to power. The 2007 general elections, and indeed, 
18
 Interview with Dr John Abhuere, a former Director at NYSC headquarters, Abuja. 
He was the first coordinator of INEC-NYSC partnership. He is currently the founder 
and chairman of the Centre for Childcare and Youth Development, Abuja. 19
 Interview with Dr John Abhuere. See also, 2013 MoU between INEC and NYSC,
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020502
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

those of 1999 and 2003, were riddled with inordinate party 
rivalry, vituperations, violence, maleficence and credibility 20
crisis.  Moreover, the quality of service rendered by several ad 
hoc staff was tainted by party affiliation. The propensity for such 
affiliation was, logically, expected to be lower within the ranks 
of the corps members who were fresh graduates from tertiary 
institutions and engaged outside their states of origin.  
Pressing for electoral reforms and respect for due process, 
the Umaru Musa Yar'Adua regime identified competence and 
education as sine qua non to sound electoral practices. 
Recognizing the potentials of the NYSC scheme as a reservoir of 
highly skilled and educated personnel, Yar Adua endorsed a 
recourse to corps members as ad hoc staff in consonance with the 
fifth item of his policy of education and human capital 21
development embedded in his Seven Point Agenda.  Therefore, 
the decision to engage corps members as polling officers was 
consistent with this desire for electoral reforms. Yar Adua 
disposition ignited a new wave of interest in a synergy between 
NYSC and INEC, regarding the conduct of elections, paving the 
way for the INEC Chairman, Maurice Iwu, to initiate the 
process. 
A requested made to NYSC by INEC, approved by the NYSC 
directorate, culminated in the engagement of corps members in 
the 2007 elections. Their performance in the elections 
approximated the standard envisaged by the INEC authorities. 
The splendor of their accomplishment resonated as fillip for 
further engagement of corps members as electoral workers in 
various by- and re-run elections.  The by-elections of 2008 and 
2009 and 2010 provided an avenue for the consolidation of the 
INEC-NYSC understanding. The NYSC contributed 5,851 corps 
members as ad hoc staff in the Kogi governorship re-run 22
elections.  In the process, the corps members, to a large extent, 
exhibited competence and a high level of discipline. On the same 
20
 Sam Itodo, “Elections and Youths: The Case of Nigeria”,21
 Overview of President Yar'adua's Seven Point Agenda:  Issues and Policy 
Challenges, www.nigeriahc.org.uk › pdf › seven_point_agenda22
 Sam Itodo, “Elections and Youths: The Case of Nigeria”.
NYSC AND NATIONAL ELECTIONS IN NIGERIA 503
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

date, some of them performed a similar feat in the governorship 
re-run elections in Adamawa state. They were involved in other 
elections in Zamfara, Sokoto, Bayelsa and Nasarawa states in 
2008 as indicated in the table below:
23
Table 13: Deployment of Corps Members in Various Elections in 2008.
Source:  Adapted from Shehu Bello Harris, “Assessing the 
participation of Youth Corps Members in the 2015 Electoral Process in 
N i g e r i a ” ,  h t t p s : / / w w w . i n e c n i g e r i a . o r g / w p -
content/uploads/2019/02/Conference-Paper-by-Shehu-Bello-
Idris.pdf.
The table indicates that a total of 11,578 and 7,729 where 
involved in re-run elections and by-elections respectively in 
2008.  By 2009, it had become the norm to engage corps members 
as electoral officers. They were increasingly seen as factors in the 
realization of the long sort credibility in Nigerian elections.  Not 
only were they of numerical value, they had sufficiently 
demonstrated an apolitical disposition as to become a source of 
relief to INEC authorities in their quest for competent non-
partisan ad hoc staff.  Thus, the momentum attained in 2008, 
fired the progress recorded in 2009. In that year, corps members 
were involved in at least ten elections as follows:
23
 Sam Itodo, “Elections and Youths: The Case of Nigeria”.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020504
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Table 14: Deployment of Corps Members in Various Elections in 2009.
Source: Adapted from Shehu Bello Harris, “Assessing the participation 
of Youth Corps Members in the 2015 Electoral Process in Nigeria”, 
h t t p s : / / w w w . i n e c n i g e r i a . o r g / w p -
content/uploads/2019/02/Conference-Paper-by-Shehu-Bello-
Idris.pdf.
The various re-run and by-elections up to 2010 had served as a 
learning ground, having exposed some challenges in the NYSC-
INEC partnership. As the nation prepared for the 2011 general 
elections, the deployment of corps members as ad hoc INEC staff 
had become a fait accompli . What could be likened to the 
experimental years were over, and it was time to consolidate. A 
Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was deemed fit to be an 
indispensable part of the consolidation process. Thus, an MoU 
was signed in 2010, streamlining the mode of engagement 
between NYSC and INEC, and paving the way for the 
engagement of 185,000 corps members as ad hoc staff in the 2011 
general elections.  Thereafter, the MoU was reaffirmed in 2013 to 
strengthen the synergy between INEC and NYSC. The 2013 
documents spelt out in details, the terms and conditions that 
were to guide both organizations while superintending national 
elections. The MoU created a framework for action and reaction, 
charted a path for the partnership, encoded the responsibility of 
both parties, and spelt out the terms of understanding as 24
follows:
1. The Commission may engage, on ad-hoc basis, the services 
of Corps members for its electoral duties;
2. The Commission shall train the corps members so engaged 
for its electoral duties before deployment;
24
 Memorandum of Understanding between INEC and NYSC, September 24, 2013.
NYSC AND NATIONAL ELECTIONS IN NIGERIA 505
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

3. The Commission may, as it deems expedient, request for 
camp facilities from the NYSC for the purpose of training 
corps members and other related electoral duties; 
4. Corps members deployed by the Commission for electoral 
duties will be paid allowances as determined by the 
Commission;
5. Where corps members are moved from their states of 
deployment to another state, the Commission shall 
provide for their feeding, transportation and 
accommodation for the period so engaged;
6. INEC and security agencies through the Inter-Agency 
Consultative Committee on Election Security (ICCESS) 
shall put in place adequate security arrangements to 
safeguard the lives of Corps members who participate in 
electoral duties, prior to, during and after elections;
7. NYSC State Coordinators shall be members of the State 
lnter-Agency Consultative Committee (ICCES) for 
election duties;
8. NYSC shall provide, in so far as it is capable, the number of 
Corps members required by   the Commission for electoral 
duties in each of the 36 states of the Federation and the 
Federal Capital Territory;
9. The Commission shall use NYSC staff in supervisory roles 
during electoral duties in which Corps members are 
involved;
10. The Commission shall after due confirmation by both 
parties pay all approved entitlements through the NYSC 
State Secretariat at the rate approved by the Commission to 
Corps members, and staff of NYSC deployed for electoral 
duties;
11. The NYSC Local Government Inspector in each of the 774 
Local Government Areas nationwide shall serve as the 
NYSC-INEC liaison officer in their respective Local 
Government Areas and shall ensure welfare of Corps 
members in that Local Government Area for the purpose 
of electoral duties;
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020506
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

12. Corps members engaged in any electoral duty shall 
operate under the directives of the Commission. They shall 
be under the supervision of NYSC staff, Electoral Officers 
and Supervisory Presiding Officers during the period of 
electoral duties;
13. NYSC upon receipt of a complaint of misconduct from the 
Commission shall investigate and sanction any Corps 
member or staff found culpable;
14. NYSC shall avail the Commission the opportunity to train 
Corps members and staff on electoral processes during the 
orientation course;
15. The Commission shall take insurance cover for Corps 
members who suffer injury, permanent disability or loss of 
life or property in the course of carrying out the 
Commission's assigned duties. In case of NYSC staff, the 
appropriate provisions of the Public Service Rule shall 
apply;
16. The parties to this Memorandum of Understanding shall 
be at liberty to draw attention to any matter relating to it 
while it subsists; and
17. The Parties hereto may meet from time to time to review 
this Memorandum of Understanding as the need arises.
In addition to the above, the MoU laid out the procedures for 
managing infractions against the partnership and resolving 
disputes amicably. To this end, a committee of three members, 
drawn from both organizations, was set up. The MoU was “to 
remain in force for Four years and renewable thereafter by 25
mutual agreement”.  However, either of the parties could 
terminate it, provided it gave the other party four months' notice 
to that effect.  While the MoU subsists, the Corps Welfare and 
Inspectorate Department of the NYSC and its subunit – INEC 
and Other Matters – were charged with the responsibility of 
operationalizing the agreement, in tandem with the objective of 
25
 Memorandum of Understanding between INEC and NYSC, September 24, 2013.
NYSC AND NATIONAL ELECTIONS IN NIGERIA 507
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

26
the MoU, and to ensure goal realization.  Invariably, they 
handled issues related to recruitment, training, remuneration 
and welfare.
26
 Memorandum of Understanding between INEC and NYSC, September 24, 2013.
Fig. 32: Corps Members on Election Duties in Different Parts of the 
Country
Deployment of Youth Corps Members as Ad hoc Staff since 
the MoU of 2010
The 2011 General Elections amply demonstrated the resolve to 
consolidate the engagement of Nigerian corps members in 
electoral services in Nigeria. With 120,000 polling units to 
contend with, INEC upheld the practice. 185,000 corps members 
out of approximately 240,000 ad hoc staff were deployed to serve 
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020508
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

27
across the country.  They were adjudged to have performed 
creditably and commended by local and international observers. 
Their impact was felt to the extent that a report by the 
International Republican Institute (IRI) declared that “NYSC 
members increased public confidence through their role as poll 
workers and voter's registration officials as they were seen as 28
more neutral than past officials”  Furthermore, the institute 
recommended that INEC should build “institutional expertise 
by incorporating… experienced NYSC workers as future 29
trainers”.  In a National Public Opinion Survey, carried out  on 
the 2011 election, only 5% of the respondents were dissatisfied 30
and held the view that some of corps members “did a poor job”.  
Okolo and Onunkwo blamed the lapses in the performance of 
some corps members on inadequate training, arguing that some 
of them “had different approaches to the same issue, thereby 31
lacking uniformity of approach”.  
The accolades that greeted the performance of corps 
members in the 2011 general elections became even louder after 
the 2015 and 2019 general elections and the gubernatorial 
elections in Edo and Ondo states of September and October, 2020 
respectively. At the point of the 2015 election, the recruitment of 
corps members as ad hoc staff had become a fait accompli. The 
introduction and use of digital permanent voters' cards by INEC 
chairman, Attahiru Jega, made the engagement of corps 
members more relevant, given their backgrounds as graduates 
of tertiary institutions. 186,000 corps members applied, while th
134,000 were selected and trained to work in the March 28  and 
27
 “134,000 corps members to be used for general elections”, The New Times. See also, 
National Election, International Republican Institute, Washington, DC, U. S. A.  
Report on 2011 Election in Nigeria, 
https://www.iri.org/sites/default/files/flip_docs/Nigeria%202011%20EO%20-
%20Final/files/assets/basic-html/page40.html28
 Nigerian National Election, International Republican Institute, Washington, DC, U. 
S. A., Report, on 2011 Election in Nigeria. 29
 Nigerian National Election, International Republican Institute.30
 Nigerian National Election, International Republican Institute.31
 Ben Simon Okolo and R Okey Onunkwo, “The 2011 Nigerian Elections:  An 
Empirical Review”, Journal of African Elections, Vol 10, No. 2, Pdf.
NYSC AND NATIONAL ELECTIONS IN NIGERIA 509
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

th
April 11  2015 general elections, and they were to become the 
fulcrum of the ad hoc staff considered competent to handle card 
readers and digital data processing, in addition to the 
conventional assignments of POs APOs, in the “more than 32
150,000 polling units and voting points across the country”.  A 
web site was created to ease the process of application, although 
physical selection was entertained in some local government 
areas to address the short-fall in the number of online applicants. 
The dedication of the NYSC members during the election, 
according to a report from the National Democratic Institute 
(NDI),  and International Republican Institute (IRI), was 
remarkable as they were not deterred by the “loss of life suffered 33
by the NYSC during the post-election violence in 2011”.  
Impressed by their performance, the INEC Chairman, 
Mahmood Yakubu, opined that “there can't be elections in 
Nigeria without the NYSC, it is simply impossible. The corps 
members are the most dedicated, educated, patriotic, willing, 34
committed, election duty staff in Nigeria”.  Beyond the 2015 
election, their utilization had become a routine practice.  During 
the 2019 general elections, over 290,000 corps members were 35
engaged as ad hoc staff.  In Ogun State alone, for instance, 
17,000 corps members were mobilized just as approximately 36
20,000 were engaged in Lagos State alone.  Youth corps 
members also made invaluable contribution to Edo State th
gubernatorial election of 19  September 2020, which has been 
described, on account of its relatively free and fair character, as 
the “dawn of a new era, where votes actually determine the 37
outcome of elections”.  In the Edo election, a team of 20,000 ad 
32
 Sam Itodo, “Elections and Youths: The Case of Nigeria”.33
 Nigerian National Election, Report by National Democratic Institute and 
International Republican Institute, Washington, DC, U. S. A.  Report, 2015 Election in 
Nigeria, p. 1234
 “Reward for Dedicated Corps Members”, Thisday, Newspaper, June 20 2019.35
 Wale Odunsi, NYSC: INEC Announces Automatic Employment for Corps Members, 
Dailypost, June 17, 2019. See dailypost.ng36
 “Reward for Dedicated Corps Members”, Thisday, Newspaper, June 20 2019.37
 Chuks Okocha, “INEC Engages 20,000Ad hoc Staff for Edo Gov Election”, Thisday 
Newspaper, August 14, 2020.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020510
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

hoc staff was deployed, of which corps members constituted a 
majority in line with the declaration of Professor Bolade Eyinla, 
Technical Adviser to INEC Chairman that “the youth corps 
members will constitute the larger percentage because they will 
be deployed mostly as Presiding Officers”. The use of an online 
registration platform, earlier introduced, was sustained in the 
recruitment of ad hoc staff for the Edo state election. 
Nevertheless, information obtained from some youth corps 
members indicate that a sizable number, having not met the 
deadline for online registration, presented themselves 
physically for selection in training venues. A similar approach 
was adopted in the Ondo state gubernatorial election of October 
10, 2020. An online portal, which closed on August 21, was 
opened for registration as ad hoc staff. Out of necessity, and in 
acknowledgement of the value of corps members as polling 
officers, the deadline was extended through a special link to the 
registration portal to enable INEC fill-up the 15,000 ad hoc 38 
positions reserved for them out of a total of 17,000. Recruitment 
was usually followed by training which equipped the corps 
members with the knowledge and ethics associated with polling 
processes.
Training of Corps Members for Ad Hoc Electoral Assignments
Training of is a statutory requirement for preparing corps 
members to serve effectively as ad hoc INEC staff.  Thus, the 
MoU made it mandatory for INEC, in collaboration of NYSC 
authorities, to provide the requisite training in the designated 
assignments. Such training has heralded the engagement of 
corps members as ad hoc staff since the 2007 general elections. 
The training programme often began with sensitization-tours by 
designated INEC officials and campaigns through the mass 
media. By such means, the qualification for participation as ad 
hoc staff was spelt out. This facilitated a filtration process 
whereby pregnant women, nursing mothers, and those with 
38
 Dayo Johnson Akure, Ondo 2020, INEC Engage 15,000 Corpers as Polling Officer, 
Vanguard Newspaper, September 9, 2020.
NYSC AND NATIONAL ELECTIONS IN NIGERIA 511
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

health challenges where discouraged from applying. A manual 
“for the sensitization of corps members” was produced to 39
strengthen the sensitization process in 2015.  It highlighted the 
expected role and code of conduct of the corps members during 
elections. Sensitization also took the form of aggressive 
campaign such as that which heralded the call for application for 
ad hoc staff in Ogun State by the NYSC State Coordinator, 
Josephine Bakare, before the recruitment of 17,000 corps 40
members to serve in the 2019 election.  She accomplished this 
task through an enlightenment tour on the four zonal NYSC 
offices, in Ijebu Ode, Abeokuta, Ota and Shagamu.  A formal 
training followed from January 29 to 31. Such training and 
sensitization were augmented by conferences and seminars, to 
which prospective ad hoc staff, including corps members were 
invited. In an NYSC management conference held in Benin City, 
preparatory to the March 28 and April 14, 2015, general 
elections, the authorities admonished corps members to show 
integrity and resist “desperate politicians who do not want the 
votes to count”.  They were also counseled to eschew “any form 41 
of misconduct or bias… during the polls”.  
Sensitization was followed by formal training on the 
electoral process. The mode of training varied depending on the 
type of election and the approach approved by INEC and NYSC 
authorities. Yet, there were certain basic characteristics. The 
training ground, over the years, was restricted to four arenas, 
namely, the NYSC orientation camp, INEC secretariat, local 
government secretariat and school premises. A typical training 
session lasted for a few hours and had some basic components, 
including lessons on good conducts, electoral statistics, 
computation process, identification and use of various forms 
39
 Manual for Sensitization Corps Members on Election Duties, National Youth Service 
Corps Directorate, Abuja, 2015. 40
 NYSC Draft 17,000 Corps Members in Ogun”, January 24, 2019, 
https://www.sunnewsonline.com/nysc-drafts-17000-corps-members-for-elections-in-
ogun/41
 Nelson Usofia, “134,000 Corps Members to be Used for general Election”, The New 
Times, March 12, 2015, https://thenewtimespress.com/archives/1393
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020512
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

and fundamental electoral laws. Prior to the 2007 elections, there 
was little emphasis on risk management and personal safety. But 
the by-elections that followed the 2007 elections witnessed a new 
emphasis on lessons regarding safety and security because of 
incidents of politically motivated violence that affected some 
corps members. As we shall see, incidents of violence were even 
more rampant during and after the 2011 general election, 
necessitating a greater emphasis on security tips in the training 42 
programmes that proceeded 2015, 2019, and 2020 elections.
Accordingly, corps members were warned against confronting 
armed thugs in the bid to protect election materials. They were 
taught to leave such matters to the security agencies and to 
utilize designated incidence forms to make their report. By 2015, 
the authorities stretched the scope of training to include digital 
data capturing and the use of card readers, as these were 
introduced as new elements in the electoral process. However, 
some individuals have criticized the nascent digital content in 
the training process, averring that there were not enough digital 43
data capturing machines released for training.  They also 
reported that the machines used for training were sometimes 44  
different from those deployed during elections. The training of 
corps members has also been criticized on the ground that 
training sessions were often crowded. Figures as high as 400 
persons per session, for instance, were recorded in Kastina in 
2015.  A similar situation played out in Benue and Adamawa 
States where as many as 300 participants were accommodated in 
some of their training sessions. There are indications that this 45
was a general problem across the country.  Another drawback 
of the training programme was that lessons were not given 
42
Nigerian National Election, International Republican Institute, Washington, DC, U. S. 
A., Report, on 2011 Election in Nigeria.  43
 Nigerian National Election, International Republican Institute, Washington, DC, U. S. 
A., Report, on 2011 Election in Nigeria.  44
 Nigerian National Election, International Republican Institute, Washington, DC, U. S. 
A., Report, on 2011 Election in Nigeria.  45
 Nigerian National Election, International Republican Institute, Washington, DC, U. S. 
A., Report, on 2011 Election in Nigeria.  
NYSC AND NATIONAL ELECTIONS IN NIGERIA 513
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

about INEC operational words in local languages to enhance the 
capacity of the corps members to relate with the locales during 46
elections.  Itodo has also argued that: 
the failure of the electoral commission to commence 
early training of election officials, especially the youth 
corps members, compromises their ability to effectively 
manage Election Day operations. The number of days 
apportioned for training of ad hoc officials is grossly 
inadequate to sufficiently equip the corps members 47
with capacity to fulfil their duties.
 
Although the NYSC manual for the sensitization of corps 
members was helpful, it was not well circulated, its availability 
online notwithstanding. Most corps members were either 
unable or unwilling to bear the cost of downloading it.  
Also, individuals like Bamgboye blamed shoddy training for 
the ease with which some corps members resorted to 
demonstrations and suspension of service while in the electoral 48 field, as witnessed in Mushin in 2015. Similarly, Abasi Aniedi 
Ikoiwak, the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), in Delta 
state, explained corps members' agitation over what they 
perceived as wanton delay in the payment of their allowance in 
Delta state in 2015, in terms of their ignorance about the payment 
process. He had to address this gap in knowledge, and the 
tension it orchestrated, through the print media, declaring that 
INEC “is not directly responsible for the payment of NYSC corps 49 
members who participate…[in elections] as ad hoc staff.”
Furthermore, he stated that INEC “pays their stipends or 
allowances directly to the coffers of the Directorate of NYSC who 
46
 Interview (Benin City, October 4, 2020) with Jerry Bight Azebokhe, Youth Corper, 
2018-2019, Anambra State. 47
 Sam Itodo, “Elections and Youths: The Case of Nigeria”.48
“NYSC Draft 17,000 Corps Members in Ogun”, January 24, 2019,  
https://www.sunnewsonline.com/nysc-drafts-17000-corps-members-for-elections-in-
ogun/49
 Lucky Oyibo, INEC Not Responsible for Payment of NYSC Members, The pointer, 
October 18, 2020, http://thepointernewsonline.com/?p=37643
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020514
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

50
in turn pays the corps members directly”  
Beyond the issues pertaining to competence, training, 
recruitment and deployment of corps members as ad hoc staff, 
welfare and security concerns have also emerged as problematic 
elements in the NYSC-INEC cooperation. Both have constituted 
formidable challenges, which at some point, have threatened to 
rock the boat.
Remuneration 
 Ad hoc electoral assignments did not fit squarely into the mode 
of primary assignment and community service envisaged in the 
NYSC statute for which corps members received fixed 
allowances. Although corps members are barred from taking up 
additional paid jobs, beyond their statutory primary 
assignments, ad hoc INEC electoral assignment could not be 
characterized along the same line (of barred additional jobs) 
because of its national outlook. However, NYSC authorities 
ensured that the NYSC-INEC partnership was embarked upon 
at no extra cost to the directorate. 
The amount approved and paid out to corps members who 
serve as ad hoc staff during elections have varied over the years. 
They are not permitted to negotiate. The amount paid to them 
was calibrated along the line of job description and not 
qualification. Although the corps members had higher 
expectations, as graduate of tertiary institutions, a flat rate was 
paid to them as ad hoc POs, and APOs. Up to the 2015 general 
election, corps members received 16,000 per election, including, 51 
presidential, gubernatorial, re-run and by-elections. However, 
there were concerns for a review of this amount as many corps 
members considered it grossly inadequate, in the face of the 
challenges they faced, especially in difficult terrains. Such 
complaints were fueled by the accommodation and 
50
 Lucky Oyibo, INEC Not Responsible for Payment of NYSC Members, The pointer, 
October 18, 2020, http://thepointernewsonline.com/?p=3764351
 Interview (October 2, 2020) with Abdulahi Mukhta, Youth Corper and Ad hoc INEC 
staff in Lagos, 2009 and Interview (October 2, 2020) with Aminu Omale Audu,, Youth 
Corper and Ad hoc INEC staff in Kogi, 2009.
NYSC AND NATIONAL ELECTIONS IN NIGERIA 515
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

transportation challenges they faced. They sometimes pay out of 
their pockets to attend to such needs while in the electoral field. 
A review of their stipend resulted in an increment to 17,500 
Naira per day or 35,000 Naira for any electoral assignment that 
spans two days. Thus, 35,000 Naira was the amount paid in 
during the 2019 election, less bank charges, to cover the 
presidential and gubernatorial elections. At the same rate, corps 
members who served during the Edo and Ondo states 
gubernatorial elections of September and October 2020 received 
17,500 Naira. 
Accommodation and Logistics
Apart from allowances, accommodation during elections has 
been major source of stress and tension for corps members. 
Given the character of the NYSC scheme, corps members are 
deployed as INEC staff outside their home communities. The 
MoU between INEC and NYSC entrusts to INEC the 
responsibility of providing decent and safe accommodation for 
the corps members so employed.  Over the years, INEC has 
handled this responsibility with levity, as the media are 
awashed with complaints and pictures of the poor response of 
INEC to this critical need. Also, most of the corps members 
interviewed, who had to stay overnight in the course of 
elections, stated that they either slept over in the open field in 
Registration Area Centres (RACs), where election materials are 
distributed, or other public places like INEC and local 
government secretariat. Some slept in buses and classrooms in 
schools, where they even shared mattresses. This was done with 
little regard to sanitation, safety and security of the corps 
members. Also, the corps members, largely, transport 
themselves and election materials to polling stations at their own 
expense, whereas INEC ought to bear the cost, in consonance 
with the MoU. Despite these challenges, corps members have 
been amenable to control and directives from their NYSC 
supervisor and INEC authorities, and have shown appreciable 
respect for the rules of the game. They explore the channel of 
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020516
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

communication open to them, although poor communication 
and information-sharing sometimes constitute problems as 
opined by Itodo:
The centralization of information poses a challenge to 
corps members seeking real time information whilst on 
election duty. Corps members have had to navigate the 
bureaucracies and inconsistencies associated with 52
information-sharing.
Shehu Bello Harris has also identified lack of synergy 
between INEC and NYSC as a logistic challenge. He argued that 
during the 2015 elections, some of the staff of both organizations 53 
“worked at cross-purposes against the spirit of the MOU”,
pointing to the lack of synergy between the NYSC State 
Coordinators and members of the Inter-Agency Consultative 
Committee on Election Security (ICCESS), as some Resident 
Electoral Commissioners (RECs) “blatantly refused to allow 
them function in that capacity until after the intervention of 54
INEC Headquarters”.  NYSC was not going to brook exclusion 
from the management of the security challenges that corps 
members face during elections. It ensured that its 
marginalization in ICCESS in previous years was corrected in 55
the 2019 and 2020 elections.   
Security and Safety Issues
The safety of corps members has also been a critical challenge in 
the discharge of their allotted assignments. They have suffered 
violence during and after elections, with at least twelve deaths 
recorded. These killings were carried out by politically 
52
 Sam Itodo, “Elections and Youths: The Case of Nigeria”,53
 Shehu Bello Harris, “Assessing the participation of Youth Corps Members in the 2015 
Electoral Process in Nigeria”, p54
  Shehu Bello Harris, “Assessing the participation of Youth Corps Members in the 2015 
Electoral Process in Nigeria”, pp. 21-22 55
 Shehu Bello Harris, “Assessing the participation of Youth Corps Members in the 2015 
Electoral Process in Nigeria”, pp. 12
NYSC AND NATIONAL ELECTIONS IN NIGERIA 517
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

motivated thugs and rioters whose grudges against the corps 
members are believed to be their uncompromising stance 
against electoral fraud, and resistance to financial inducement to 
rig elections and falsify results. As far back as 2008, two corps 
members were killed in Jos in the course of local government 56
elections.  Also, in the wave of violence that followed the 2011 
general elections, eleven of them were killed in Glada, 
Ita/Gadau, Katagum and Alkaleri local government areas of 57
Bauchi State.  Similarly, a corps member, Samuel Okota, was 
killed in the Rivers State re-run election in Ahoada West Local 58
Government Area.  There was also a case of an accident, which 
resulted in the death of Okanlewon Olaleka Ibrahim, in the 59
course of his electoral assignment in the March 9, 2019 election.  
Concerns about the safety of corps members have been 
particularly strong in the constituencies of Northeastern Nigeria 
because of the spate of violence and insecurity associated with 
Boko Haram extremists. The situation in this geo-political zone 
was so critical that NYSC asked for bullet-proof vests as a 
condition for deploying corps members to Adamawa state 60
during the gubernatorial elections of 2015.  
Thus, violence against corps members has elicited some 
responses regarding measures to be taken to guarantee their 
safety during electoral assignments. As stated earlier, critics like 
Ajulo, proposed that the practice of employing corps members 
56
“Post-Election Violence and Youth Corpers”, The Nigerian Voice, 
https://www.thenigerianvoice.com/news/51574/post-election-violence-and-youth-
corpers.html,57
“Post-Election Violence and Youth Corpers”, The Nigerian Voice, 
https://www.thenigerianvoice.com/news/51574/post-election-violence-and-youth-
corpers.html58
 “Rivers Re-run: NYSC confirms killing of corps member”, Vanguard Newspaper, March 
21, 2016.
https://www.vanguardngr.com/2016/03/rivers-re-run-nysc-confirms-killing-corps-
member.59
 “RIP Ibrahim… NYSC, Nigerians mourn corps member who died while on election 
duty”, International Centre for Investigating Reporting, https://www.icirnigeria.org60
 Staff Writer, “Adamawa Elections: NYSC Wants INEC To Provide Bullet-Proof Vests 
and Armed Escorts For Corps Members”, Newswire Nigeria, September 10, 2014, 
https://newswirengr.com/2014/09/10/adamawa-elections-nysc-wants-inec-to-provide-
bullet-proof-vests-and-armed-escorts-for-corp-members/
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020518
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

as ad hoc INEC staff should be outlawed and jettisoned 
altogether, arguing that the acts of violence are likely to persist 
because they are perceived by their host communities as 
unwanted hands in elections that they regard as community 61
affairs.  However, the idea of excluding corps members from 
electoral assignment has remained unpopular. The authorities 
are more inclined towards alternative safety measures. 
Although not persuaded by the argument that corps members 
should be excluded from ad hoc electoral assignments, Attahiru 
Jega, expressed some concerns about security challenges faced 
by them during general elections, stating that they will only be 62
invited to serve “on the guarantee that they are secured,”  
stating further that “there is no responsible organization that 63
will deliver innocent people to the lion's den”.  
Impact of the Involvement of Corp Members in Ad hoc 
Electoral Assignments and the Electoral Process 
Despite the challenges that have attended the process, the 
engagement of corps members as polling staff definitely 
represents a landmark in the evolution of electoral process in 
Nigeria. The dominant perception of their impact could be 
gleaned from the views expressed by participating corps 
members, international and local observers as well as INEC and 
NYSC officials.  A corps member of the 2009 service year, Omale 
Aminu Audu, opined that INEC ad hoc assignments give corps 
members a sense of belonging as citizens and an opportunity to 64
cultivate the spirit of patriotism and fairness.  This implies that 
the they gain first-hand experience about some of the fault lines 
in the electoral process in Nigeria and the opportunity to be a 
61
 “Lawyer Threatens to Sue INEC for Using CORPERS as ad hoc Election Workers”, Punch, 
March 1, 2019.62
 Adamawa 2014: NYSC Gives INEC Conditions on Corps Members Participation, 
Vanguad, September  10, 2014.  See allafrica.com/stories201409100270.html63
 Okey Ndiribe and Caleb Ayansina, Adamawa 2014: NYSC Gives INEC Conditions on 
Corps Members Participation, Vanguard,  September 10, 2014. See 
allafrica.com/stories201409100270.html64
 Interview (October 2, 2020) with Aminu Omale Audu,, Youth Corper and Ad hoc 
INEC staff in Kogi, 2009.
NYSC AND NATIONAL ELECTIONS IN NIGERIA 519
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

part of the solution. Similarly, Abdulahi Mukhta averred that 
most corps members perceived INEC job as a sensitive national 
assignment, which come to them as a privilege; a training 
ground of some sort for learning how to reconcile privileges 
with obligation as a citizen. According to him, it exposes corps 
members to the challenges that beset the electoral process, and 
that the participants go home better informed about the 
anomalies in Nigerian political development and, thus, become 
better equipped to partake in voters' education in their 65
communities.  Speaking along the same line, Jerry Bright 
Azebekhe stated that as a result of his experience as ad hoc staff, 
he gained a better understanding of Nigeria's political actors, 
arguing that vote buying could be contained easily if security 
agents are truly disposed to doing so. He advocated enhanced 
allowances for corps members who serve as POs and APOs 
during elections and suggested that they should be trained as 
covert agents to detect vote buying and report same to the 
security officers. However, he pointed out that some POs are 
implicated in the discrepancies (over voting) that sometimes 
occur between accredited and actual number of voters. 
According to him, such POs deliberately and carefully tore and 
handed out two ballot papers to one accredited voter to shore up 66
the votes of his favourite candidate.  This implies that some 
NYSC members are susceptible to manipulation by politicians 
and party candidates during elections.
Itodo reechoed these accolades when he declared that “the 
professional conduct and patriotism exhibited by corps 
members in the management of elections at polling units has  67
improved the integrity of elections in Nigeria”. He 
underscored this assertion by drawing attention to the decline in 
election litigation between 2007 and 2015. In the 2007 election 
65
 Interview (October 2) with Abdulahi Mukhta, Youth Corper and Ad hoc INEC staff in 
Lagos, 2009 and66
 Interview (October 4) with Jerry Bright azebeke, Youth Corper and Ad hoc INEC staff in 
Amambra, 2018-2019.67
 Sam Itodo, “Elections and Youths: The Case of Nigeria”.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020520
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

68
there were 1,290 petitions, 732 in 2011, and 611 in 2015.  It has 
also been argued that the INEC-NYSC partnership “promotes 
youth participation, restores confidence in Nigerian youths, 
instils the value of volunteerism, patriotism and citizenship, 
reduces the rigging of elections as well as builds a culture of 69
leadership among participating corps members.  In a similar 
tone, NDI  reported that “NYSC members increased public 
confidence through their roles as poll workers and voter's 
registration officials as they were seen as more neutral than past 70
officials”.  Also, the European Union (EU)  International 
observers' reports and gestures, have lent credence to the 
engagement of corps members in Nigerian elections. Beyond 
words, they demonstrated their support for the development in 
practical terms. After the 2019 general elections, they rewarded 
75 youth corps members, for the due diligence they displayed 
during elections with the equipment – laptops and mobile 
phones – which they used during the election.  During the 
presentation ceremony, which was attended by the Director 
General of NYSC, Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim and the 
head of EU delegation to Nigeria, Ambassador Ketil karlsen,  the 
chairman of INEC, Mamood Yakubu, extolled the immense 
contribution of corps members to the conduct of elections in 
Nigeria, despite the risk of working in difficult terrains and 
riverine areas like Oporoma in South Ijaw and Ilaje in Ondo 71
State.  Furthermore, expressing his delight in their conduct, he 
complemented the EU gesture with a promise that outstanding 
performance by corps members in the electoral field will, 
henceforth, (after the 2009 election) be rewarded with full-time 72 
employment as INEC staff.
68
 Sam Itodo, “Elections and Youths: The Case of Nigeria”.69
 Sam Itodo, “Elections and Youths: The Case of Nigeria”.70
 Nigerian National Election, International Republican Institute, Washington, DC, U. S. 
A. and the National Democratic Institute,  Report, on 2011 Election in Nigeria.71
 “Reward for Dedicated Corps Members”, Thisday, Newspaper,  June 20 2019.72
 “Reward for Dedicated Corps Members”, Thisday, Newspaper,  June 20 2019.
NYSC AND NATIONAL ELECTIONS IN NIGERIA 521
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

CONCLUSION
 The deployment of  NYSC members as ad hoc electoral staff 
opened a new chapter in the electoral process in Nigeria. It has 
helped INEC to address a major manpower problem that beset 
its endeavours as electoral umpire. NYSC feeds INEC with 
quality hands – graduates of tertiary institutions, who are not 
more than 30 years of age.  Since 2007, corps members have 
constituted the hub of ad hoc staff. The relevance of the NYSC-
INEC partnership has become even more glaring as INEC now 
requires over a million ad hoc staff to conduct elections. Against 
a few voices of dissent, stakeholders in Nigerian politics and 
international observers have showered encomiums and even 
gifts on corps members for the improvement they have 
engendered in the conduct of elections in the country. They have 
displayed a superior level of neutrality and probity in 
comparison to the older regime of ad hoc staff. Statements and 
projections from both INEC and NYSC authorities indicate that 
the partnership will endure for a long time to come. 
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020522
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Chapter Seventeen
NYSC AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT 
IN NIGERIA, 1973-2019
Olisa Muojama 
Department of History 
University of Ibadan 
Ibadan, Nigeria.
Introduction
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) was established in 
1973 as a post-civil war strategy in Nigeria, aimed at the 
development of common ties among the youth of Nigeria and 1 
for the promotion of national unity. The programme was also 
meant to provide the Nigerian youth with appropriate training 
in various skills in a real working condition, an organisation to 
inculcate in the Nigerian youth a healthy attitude towards 2 
manual labour. Apart from addressing some of the fundamental 
issues of the civil war by actively promoting the ethos of unity 
and cultural integration, the NYSC also contributes to national 
development through skill and 'manpower development' of the 
Nigerian youth.
As far back as 1971, even before the establishment of the 
NYSC, government had recognised the importance of training 
by promulgating the Industrial Training Fund Decree. This was 
an attempt by the Federal government to ensure adequate 
provision of trained manpower to run the affairs of the various 
commercial and industrial establishments. Under this, a huge 
1 
Dereck Osadere Arubayi. “Youth Development: Understanding the National Youth 
Service Corps (NYSC) to Nigeria's National Development.” A thesis submitted to the 
University of Manchester on Degree of Doctor of Philosophy in Development Policy and 
Management in the Faculty of Humanities, 20152 
Azalahu Francis Akwara. “The Role of the National Youth Service Corps in National 
Development in Nigeria: A Case Study of the National Youth Service Corps Scheme in 
Cross River and Akwa Ibom States of Nigeria.” MSC degree project submitted to the 
Department of Political Science, University of Nigeria, Nsukka, 1991, p.1
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

amount was provided by the government from time to time, and 
other employers of labour were expected to contribute to this 3 
fund training programmes. Similarly, the 1988 Civil Service 
reforms emphasised the need for training and development of 
workers as it has become imperative that workers have day to 4
day information on the job they are doing.
This paper examines the role of the National Youth Service 
Corps (NYSC) in the manpower development in Nigeria. The 
argument and observation that underpin the study is two-fold. 
First, earlier studies on the manpower development in Nigeria 
have omitted the contributions of the NYSC. Similarly, an 
avalanche of works has been done on various aspects of the 5 
NYSC. However, these works have downplayed the role of the 
NYSC in manpower development. Second, the paper maintains 
that the NYSC has made tremendous contributions in the 
training and retraining of young Nigerians in various skills 
which have enabled them to scale the hurdle of unemployment.
3
C. S. Ologunowa, B. A. Akintuinde, and B. O. Adu. “Manpower Training and 
Development: Pathway to Efficient Organizational Perfomance.”American International 
Journal of Research in Humanities, Arts and
Social SciencesVol.9, No.1, 2014, p.484
Ibid., p.445 
Azalahu Francis Akwara. “The Role of the National Youth Service Corps in National 
Development in Nigeria: A Case Study of the National Youth Service Corps Scheme in 
Cross River and Akwa Ibom States of Nigeria.” MSC degree project submitted to the 
Department of Political Science, University of Nigeria, Nsukka, 1991; Dereck Osadere 
Arubayi. “Youth Development: Understanding the National Youth Service Corps 
(NYSC) to Nigeria's National Development.” A thesis submitted to the University of 
Manchester on Degree of Doctor of Philosophy in Development Policy and Management 
in the Faculty of Humanities, 2015; Bika and Ehiorobo. “Assessing the Impact of National 
Youth Service Corps Scheme on Socio- Economic Development in Nigeria.”; G. 
Eneagwea and G. Umoden. NYSC: Twenty Years of National Service. Lagos: Gabumo Press, 
1993; Ebenezer Obadare. “Statism, Youth and the Civic Imagination: A Critical Study of 
the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Programme in Nigeria.” Centre for Social 
Development Report 05-18, 2005; Chukwuemeka Okafor and Johnmary Ani. “The 
National Youth Service Corps Programme and Growing Security Threat in Nigeria.” 
Africa's Public Service Delivery Performance Review; T. A. Amao. “National Youth Service 
Corps (NYSC) Contribution to Development in Nigeria.” Commonwealth Youth and 
Development. Vol. 10, No.2, 2012, 90-97; L. Raimi and O. Alao. “Evaluation of the 
Economics (Cost and Benefits) of National Youth Service Corps for Sustainable 
Development in Nigeria.” Humanomics Vol. 27, No.4, 2011,270-281; Anthony Onyeishi 
and Christian Ezeibe. “National Youth Service Corps Scheme and National 
Development in Nigeria.” Asian Journal of Research in Social Sciences and Humanities Vol. 4, 
No 4, 2014,455-465
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020524
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The study relied on both primary and secondary sources for 
its analysis. Primary sources included interviews of purposively 
selected stakeholders such as the former corps members who 
have benefitted from manpower development programme 
under the auspices of the NYSC. The study is important because 
it will not only fill a gap in the body of knowledge in the area of 
manpower development in Nigeria, but will put the activities 
and contributions of the NYSC in proper perspective.
The subsequent narrative is divided into five sections. The 
first section deals with the conceptual overview of manpower 
development. The Second section deals with the contribution of 
NYSC to manpower development. This section is subdivided 
into two, namely the 20th and 21th centuries. The third section 
deals with the Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship 
Development Programme of the NYSC, while the fourth section 
deals with the challenges of manpower development as it relates 
to the NYSC. This is followed by a conclusion.
Manpower Development in Nigeria: A Thematic Overview
This section deals with the thematic overview of the nuances of 
manpower development. The themes include conceptualisation 
and nature of manpower development, theories of human 
capital and human capacity, relevance and importance of 
manpower development, effects of manpower development 
and institutional contributions to manpower development in 
Nigeria.
Conceptualisation and Nature of Manpower Development
Manpower is the critical element in the development of any 
nation. It refers to human power supplied by physical and/or 
mental work of people rather than machines. It also refers to 
power in terms of number of people needed or available in a 6 
particular country for social and economic development. It 
connotes the total supply of humans (personnel—men and 
6 
Moshood Ayinde Hassan. “Manpower Development for Workers in Tertiary 
Institutions: Distance Learning Approach.”  International Education Studies Vol.4 No.2, 
2011, p.89
NYSC AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT IN NIGERIA, 1973-2019 525
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

women) available or engaged for a specific job or task. The 
available personnel may be skilled or unskilled. They may not be 
fully developed as workers and, therefore, over the course of 
time, there is need for an organisation to train or retrain them to 
perform specific tasks. This training required of the personnel 7
can be referred to as manpower development or staff renewal.
Manpower development is now commonly referred to as 
human resource or human capital development. It seeks to 
optimise an organisation's usage of its human resources. It 
requires an incorporate approach and addresses 
multidimensional aspect of employees, ranging from enhancing 
technical and interpersonal skills to creative thinking and 8
leadership.
Manpower development has to do with training and 
retraining of workers. Training, as used in this context, refers to 
acquisition of skills and information directly required for the 
performance of specific role. It includes on-the-job training, 9 
workshops, seminars and conference. Manpower training is one 10
of the most significant investments in manpower development.
Manpower development is synonymous with capacity 
building. Capacity building entails investment in human 
capital, institutions and practices necessary to enhance human 
skills, overhaul institutions and improve procedure and 11 
systems. Sanusi further sees capacity building as the 
internationalisation of the knowledge, skills and processes that 
enable the formulation, implementation, monitoring and 12
evaluation of set goals in an efficient manner.
7 
Victor F. Peretomode and Peter Ikoya. “Mentorship: A Strategic Technique for 
Achieving Excellence, Manpower Development and Nation Building.” Mediterranean 
Journal of Social Science Vol. 10, No. 2, 2019, p.218 
Ugochukwu Chinonso Okolie and Charles Ogbaekirigwe. “Entrepreneurship 
Development through Vocational Education and Manpower Development in a 
Developing Economy.” Journal of Education Policy and Entrepreneurial Research Vol. 1, 
No.2, 2014, p.1529 
Okereke and Igboke. “Training Manpower Development”, p.39910   
Obi-Anike, Ofobruku and Okafor. “Manpower Development and Employees' 
Performance”, p.311 
Malaolu, and Ogbuabor. “Training and Manpower Development”, p. 16312
Ibid.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020526
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Manpower, development emphasises the issue of 
improvement in two key elements, namely, individual 13
employees and business organisations. Some methods of 
manpower development in organisations include the following: 
coaching, job rotation and job enlargement, in-house training, 
in-science training, workshop/ committee meetings, vestibule 14
training, apprenticeship method.
Theories of Human Capital, Human Capacity and Manpower 
Development
The theory of manpower development is rooted in the field of 
macroeconomic development. In the viewpoints of 
conventional economic theory, organisational manpower is 
considered as commodities that can be merchandised in terms of 15
buying and selling. Human behavior is not as predictable as 
matter in the physical sciences. In effect, theoretical postulations 
about the capacity of training and manpower development to 
increase efficiency in employees' performance cannot always be 16
guaranteed.
Human capacity theory provides evidence which indicates 
that training and education raise the productivity of workers by 
imparting useful knowledge and skills, hence raising workers' 
future income by increasing their lifetime earnings and also 
providing an exploration that links investment in training with 
workers' wages. In particular, the theory draws a crucial 
distinction between general education and firm-specific 
training, and recognises training and human development as a 
basic skill provided for higher productivity of a worker. 
Training has the distinct role in the achievement of an  
organisational goal by incorporating the interest of the 
13
Obi-Anike, Ofobruku and Okafor. “Manpower Development and Employees' 
Performance”, p.314 
Peretomode and Ikoya. “Mentorship”, p.2115
Obi-Anike, Ofobruku and Okafor. “Manpower Development and Employees' 
Performance”, p.316 
Chukwunenye Iheanacho Okereke and Beatrice Nnenna Igboke. 'Training Manpower 
Development and Job Performance: Perception and Relevance among civil Servants in 
Ebonyi State, Nigeria.' Journal of Economics and International Finance Vol. 3, No. 6, 2011, 
p.399
NYSC AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT IN NIGERIA, 1973-2019 527
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

17 
organisation and the workforce.
The notion of human capital (HC) as one of the dominant 
factors of production was advanced to address the 
complications of economic growth studies in the 1960s. The 
theoretical foundation of HC in conventional development 
economics seeks to elucidate the basis of unequal growth paths 
between nations. Human capital theory is founded on Adam 
Smith's proposition, Wealth of the Nations, in which he remarked 
that the substantial investment in human capital development is 
a prerequisite to a nation's development. Accordingly, 
investment in human capital development in both formal and 
informal education and training programmes enhances 
economic productivity and the prospects of successful 18
innovation and competiveness. The underlying argument is 
that the returns on education and life-long learning will enhance 
overall production of nation state, and improve individual 
earnings and social status. OECD contends that human capital 
describes the combined skills, knowledge, competences, 
aptitudes, and other attributes embodied in individuals that are 19
relevant to economic development.
Relevance and Importance of Manpower Development
Several scholars have accepted the perception that manpower 
development remains a good mechanism for the enhancement 
of organisational productivity. According to such scholars, 
manpower development is the process of teaching managers, 
professional and all employees the knowledge and skills needed 20 
for present and future task accomplishment. Overtime, 
organisations have been embarking on training and capacity 
building for their employees so as to enhance productivity and 
overall performance of staff in such organisations. This is in 
17
Malaolu, and Ogbuabor. “Training and Manpower Development”, p.16318 
Kareem Bika and Abraham Ehiorobo. “Assessing the Impact of National Youth Service 
Corps Scheme on Socio-Economic Development in Nigeria.” Ilorin Journal of Human 
Resource Management (IJHRM) Vol. 3, No. 1, 2019, pp. 11119 
Dareck Osadere Arubayi. 'Youth Development.' p.4520   
Obi-Anike, Ofobruku and Okafor. “Manpower Development and Employees' 
Performance”, p.1
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020528
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

recognition of the important role of training and manpower 
development on employees' productivity and organisational 21 
goals. Employee training and manpower development is very 
vital to job productivity and an organisation's performance since 
the formal educational system does not adequately provide 
specific job skills for a position in some organisations. While few 
individuals may have the requisite skills, knowledge, abilities 
and competence needed to fit into a specific job function, some 
others may require necessary skills to be able to fit in a specific 
job function and also make significant contribution to the 22
organisation's performance.
Job performance is more than a narrow economic measure as 
it connotes how well a group performs its required tasks to 
satisfy its customers inside and outside the organisation, which 23 
suggests effectiveness and efficiency of the employees.
Robbinson and Robbinson have argued that the most significant 
direct benefits of training and manpower development are 
clarity in job duties and responsibility as well as increase in 24 
employee's competence, among others. Aina has argued that 
training enables an employee to produce efficiently, prepares 
him for higher position (advancement), enhances his self-25 
respect and economic independence, among others. Rose has 
noted that the individual employee gains from training and 
manpower development by being able to perform his task well 26
and gain satisfaction for efficient work.
Training and manpower development directly result in job 
satisfaction and increased performance. However, it has been 
noted that this mechanical assumption is misplaced, as it 
neglects the vital role played by 'motivation' as an intervening 
variable between the polemics of training and manpower 
21   
Malaolu, and Ogbuabor. “Training and Manpower Development”, p.16322   
Malaolu, and Ogbuabor. “Training and Manpower Development”, p.16323 
Okereke and Igboke.  “Training Manpower Development and Job Performance”, 
p.40024
Ibid. 25
Ibid. 26
Ibid.
NYSC AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT IN NIGERIA, 1973-2019 529
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

27 
development and performance. Training and manpower 
development build a team that is effective, efficient, and well-
motivated, thereby enhancing the confidence and self-esteem of 
employees. The employees' knowledge and skills are thus 
developed to adapt to new technologies and other 
organisational changes. Training and manpower development 
also create chances for the promotion of employees to replace 28
those who have left the organisation. The importance of 
manpower development in national development has been 
extensively discussed in literature and a general conclusion has 
been reached by scholars all over the world. This informed the 
position that it is human resources, not capital, not income, nor 
material resources, that constitute the ultimate basis of the 29
wealth of nation.
Effects of Manpower Development
Manpower development was perceived to influence job 
performance, but the influence of the type of training on job 30 
performance is inclusive. The difference in organisational 
performance as well as differential in countries development 
can be situated within the context of the effect of manpower 
development. For instance, in trying to understand the 
differentials in the growth rates of GNP per capita during the 
postwar decades in the three regions of Asia (East, South-East, 
and South Asia), Harry Oshima singled out manpower 
development as one of the major forces responsible for the 31
growth differentials.
East Asian countries, Japan, Taiwan, South Korea, Hong 
Kong, and Singapore grew at a rate of about 6% GNP per capita 
between 1950 and 1975, in contrast to South Asian countries 
which grew at a rate of only 1 to 2 % and South East Asia 
countries at a rate of 2 ½ to 3%. In this classification, Singapore is 
placed in East Asia, Burma with South Asia, and China, 
27
Ibid.28
Malaolu, and Ogbuabor. “Training and Manpower Development”, p.16329
Malaolu, and Ogbuabor. “Training and Manpower Development”, p.16630 
Okereke and Igboke.  “Training Manpower Development and Job Performance”, p.39931 
Harry T. Oshima. The Role of Manpower Development in Postwar Asian Differential Growth . 
University of the Phillipines, School of Economics Discussion paper 7902 February 1979., p.2
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020530
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos are excluded, since GNP statistics 32
were not available shortly after the Second World War.
In terms of national resources (including arable land) per 
capita, East Asia is the poorest of the three regions. Capital in the 
form of factories and machines was largely bombed out by the U. 
S. air force in most of Japan and Taiwan, and during the Korean 
War in the case of S. Korea., Thus, these countries had to build up 
their technology and much of capital anew by importations from 
abroad. And technological needs can be met by importing 33
foreign technology.
If we go further afield into the Middle East, we have the oil 
countries which, despite their richness, do not seem to be able to 
grow in a sustained fashion. The most recent example is Iran 
which, despite the vast importation of modern technology from 
abroad, is now in great disturbance with little prospects of 
resuming growth for years to come. There are several countries 
in Africa and Latin America where abundance of national 
resources and capital have not produced economic 34
development in any sustained fashion.
Raw materials can also be imported cheaply with the 
revolution in maritime transport, as the experience of East Asia 
demonstrates. We are thus left with manpower as the main 
factor in the growth of developing countries since the 
importation of large amounts of required manpower raises 
difficult problems as in the case of Iran and other Middle Eastern 
countries. It is, of course, not the quantitative aspects of 
manpower that is important, inasmuch as Southeast and South 
Asia are amply supplied with labour. Good manpower is of 
particular importance for Asia with its great population 
densities and scarce natural resources and wealth. Manpower 35 
must substitute for the scarce resources.
32   
Ibid., p.233   
Ibid., p.234
Harry T. Oshima. The Role of Manpower Development in Postwar Asian Differential Growth, 
p.235
Ibid., p.3
NYSC AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT IN NIGERIA, 1973-2019 531
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Institutional Contributions to Manpower Development in 
Nigeria 
Emeka Christian Okafor has discussed the role of vocational 
education and technical education in manpower development 
and job creation in Nigeria, maintaining that technical education 
facilitates the acquisition of practical and applied skills as well as 36 
basic scientific knowledge. He noted that technical education is 
a planned program of courses and learning experiences that 
begins with exploration of career options, supports basic 
academic and life skills, and enables achievement of high 
academic standards, leadership, preparation for industry-37 
defined work, and advanced and continuing education. He 
argues that presently, Nigeria is offering education in general 
subjects, but to achieve development, it must offer a variety of 
courses for disciplines such as technical, vocational, 
professional, agricultural, and so on, because the country needs 
a balanced distribution of manpower for all professions, so that 
the vast population of Nigeria can contribute to economic 38
growth by participating in different professions.
Similarly, Musa Sheriff Urama and Okerieocha Ndidi have 
examined the role of technical and vocational education in 
providing the much-needed skilled manpower in various 
spheres of endeavour. According to them, the technical growth 
of any country should be structurally consistent with its 
manpower in the right number, the right quality, and at the right 
time. Skills could be acquired through training, formal and 
informal education (apprenticeship). Skills acquired through 
formal education can be obtained through technical education. 
Vocational technical education is indeed any form of education 
whose purpose is to prepare persons for employment in an 
occupation or a group of occupation. Vocational technical 
education is aimed at developing practical skills such as 
desirable work attitude and habits that make the recipient a very 
36 
Emeka Christian Okafor. “The Role of Vocational and Technical Education in 
Manpower Development and Job Creation in Nigeria.” Journal of Research and 
Development Vol. 2 No.1, 2011, p.15237 
Ibid.38 
Ibid., 155
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020532
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

39
creative and resourceful individual. There has been a study on 
the relationship that exists between manpower development 
planning and ICT. The study critically examines the readiness of 
the polytechnic's students in harnessing the potential of internet 40 
and its overall impact on manpower development. Its aim is to 
identify how the deployment of ICT affects manpower planning 41 
and development in Nigeria.
Similarly, Camilus Bassey Ben and Michael Ushie Ashang 
have also dealt with the role of ICT in skilled manpower 
development through vocational education among higher 
institutions, using Cross River State of Nigeria as a case. They 
note that manpower development is partly determined by the 
ability to establish a synergic interaction between technological 
innovation and human values. The rapid rate at which ICTs th 
have evolved since the mid- 20 century as well as the 
convergence and pervasiveness of ICTs give them a strong role 42
in manpower development and globalisation. In all these 
conversations on manpower development, the role of the NYSC 
has been a missing theme.
National Youth Service Corps and Manpower Development: 
Implications for Economic Development and Nation Building 
in Nigeria since 1973
This section deals with the contributions of the NYSC scheme to 
manpower development as well as its implication for economic 
development and nation building in Nigeria since its inception 
in 1973. To achieve this purpose, the understanding of the 
39 
Musa Sheriff Urama and Okorieocha Ndidi. “Manpower Development in Technical 
and Vocational Education (TVE): A Prerequisite for the Technical Development of 
Nigeria.”Knowledge Review Vol. 26, No. 4, 2012, 130-13140 
Dimitri J. Amassoma, Dauda O. Ayanda and Kamiludeen Tijani. “Internet Usage 
among Nigerian Polytechnic Students and its Impact on Manpower Development: A 
Case Study Approach.”Journal of Information Technology Impact Vol. 10, No.3, 2010, p. 16141
Ibid., p.16542 
Camilus Bassey Ben and Michael Ushie Ashang. “The Role of ICT in Skilled Manpower 
Development through Vocational Technical Education among Higher Institutions in 
Cross River State, Nigeria. “International Journal of Vocational and Technical Education 
Vol.5 No.5, 2013, p.92
NYSC AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT IN NIGERIA, 1973-2019 533
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

dynamics of the scheme is essential. This is because the scheme 
has not been static but dynamic in accordance with the changing 
pattern of the Nigerian socio-economic configuration. Put 
differently, the national socio-economic changes have affected 
the nature and trajectories of the NYSC's contributions to 
manpower development as well as its implication for economic 
development and nation building Nigeria.
Although from inception, part of the mandates of the NYSC 
was to allow Nigerian youths to acquire the spirit of 
independence by inspiring them to acquire skills for self-
employment as well as contribute towards the growth and 43
development of the country's economy . In the early years of the 
NYSC (1970s) up to its first two decades (1990s), the scheme's 
focus and attention was more on national integration and 
nation-building. This was because of the effects of the civil war 
of 1967-70, which continued to linger decades after the incident. 
Thus, in order to foster the process of de-Biafranization and to 
reintegrate the secessionist region into the mainstream of the 
Nigerian society, there was the need to focus more attention on 
the youth in order to breed a new generation of detribalised 
Nigerians, which had to take between thirty and forty years. 
This accounted for major emphasis on nation building processes 
by the NYSC in the first twenty to thirty years of its 
establishment. As a result, manpower and economic 
development were tangential and secondary. This does not 
imply that manpower development did not occur. Its occurrence 
was implied, but not emphasised. The corps members, in their 
various places of primary assignment, learn some practical skills 
which help to develop their manpower. The argument, 
however, is that it was not a major emphasis of the Corps by that 
time. Part of the reasons for this secondary place of manpower 
development in the scheme of the NYSC in the early years of its 
43 
MtormaBari Tambari Deebom and Ilomabo Taylor Daerego. 'The Influence of National 
Youth Service Corps Entrepreneurship Skill Acquisition Programmes on Youth 
Empowerment in River State.' International Journal of Humanities, Social Sciences and 
Education (IJHSSE), Vol. 7, Iss. 6 (June 2020), 147
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020534
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

establishment was that apart from the effect of the civil war and 
the desire to foster national integration, the education system in 
Nigeria was still very strong, comprehensive and viable three 
decades after Nigeria's independence in 1960. Consequently, 
manpower development was not an issue in the Nigerian 
political and economic spheres because virtually all the 
graduates of the Nigerian tertiary institutions by that time were 
properly trained in both theory and practice, coupled with the 
fact that there was scarcity of manpower in relation to the 
available employment opportunities in the country. It was such 
that even before graduation, companies and industries went to 
tertiary institutions in search of workers who would fill the 
teeming vacancies in their establishments. All these contributed 
to making manpower development a non-issue in the first two to 
three decades after the inception of the NYSC.
However, by the late 1900s and early 2000s, the socio-
economic environment of Nigeria had changed. There were 
demographic changes such that the population of the country 
increased geometrically, coupled with the increase in the 
number of graduates as well as the concomitant shrinking in the 
economic opportunities due to the effects of the Structural 
Adjustment Programme of the mid-1980s and early 1990s. This 
situation was compounded by the ascendancy of the 
government as the major employer of labour in the country, as 
well as nepotism. Since certificate became a ticket for 
employment in the government sector, emphasis was more on 
paper qualification, rather than on knowledge acquisition. This 
gave rise to the emergence of graduates who could no longer 
function efficiently in the practical world, what has been 
described as 'unemployable graduates. Thus, in order to remedy 
this deficiency, NYSC began to pay more attention to manpower 
development, a means to providing some practical skills to the 
corps members in order to make them functional in the labour 
market and to give them the opportunity to be self-reliant 
considering that opportunities for employment are constantly 
shrinking. This, as we shall see eventually, resulted in the 
NYSC AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT IN NIGERIA, 1973-2019 535
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

introduction of Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship 
Development Programme (SAED) in 2012.
The subsequent narratives are specific cases aimed at 
buttressing the foregoing propositions of the changing pattern 
of the emphasis of the NYSC from major preoccupation with 
national integration and nation-building to the accentuated 
attention to manpower development. In line with the foregoing 
historical model, the narrative has been divided into two 
sections, namely, 1973-2000, which represents the era of 
exclusive emphasis on national integration, and 2000-2020, 
representing the era of shifting emphasis on manpower 
development. The testimonies of corps members who served in 
various states at different time frame are explored to 
demonstrate these trends.
The First Three Decades of NYSC and Manpower Development 
in Nigeria, 1973-2000
The NYSC operations are two-dimensional: (a) orientation, 
which takes place between two and three weeks and (b) primary 
assignment, which takes place outside the camp. Throughout its 
existence till date the drill activities, handled by the military, 
have featured prominently in the orientation camps. This gives 
the scheme its paramilitary characteristics and outlook. Besides, 
there are non-drill activities which are also undertaken in the 
camp such as cultural activities, sports, seminars and 
workshops, religious activities, economic activities, 
entertainment, among others. These non-drill activities have 
changed overtime due to the dynamics of the socio-economic 
development of Nigeria. Emphasis of this section will be more 
on the non-drill activities which are the vehicle of manpower 
development, considering that the corps members are not being 
prepared for military activities, but for being good and 
detribalised citizens of Nigeria wherever and in whatever trade 
they eventually find themselves after the scheme. 
For instance, in the 1970s, the non-drill activities were 
initially provided by instructors from the military and 
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020536
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

citizenship and leadership Training Centre. The orientation 
programme included a series of lectures on the history, politics 
and administration, economics and ideology of Nigeria. These 
lectures were to emphasise national unity and nation-building, 
common heritage, the emerging ideology of Nigeria, and the 44
special position of Nigeria in the Black world.
Chris Ikporukpo who was one of the pioneer corps members 
corroborated this evidence. He served between 1973 and 1974 in 
north-western state, which was one of the 12 states in Nigeria as 
at that time. The north-western state comprised the current 
Zamfara, Sokoto, Niger, and part of Kwara. The orientation 
camp was located in Sokoto, while he did his primary 
assignment in Shinkafi Government Secondary School located 45 
in Zamfara, where he taught Geography and Economics. He 
noted that the military drills were then the major activity in the 
orientation camp. Part of the training included the art of solo 
survival, a situation in which the corps members were taught 
how to survive when left on their own in the forest or in 
unconventional situation. It also involved climbing of the 
Kotokoshi hill near Sokoto. He confirmed that there were also 
non-drill activities which were mainly lectures on military 46 
discipline, history and cultures of the Nigerian peoples. There 
was no special attempt at providing new practical skills for them 
at the camp except what they learned at their place of primary 
assignment.
Two years after Ikporukpo completed his national service, 
Gabriel Ifo Atiri undertook his national youth service 
programme between 1976 and 1977, and also in Sokoto, in the 
then north- western state. He corroborated Ikporukpo's 
testimonies that the orientation camp was in Argungu in Sokoto 
and that there was no deliberate effort to provide them with 
other additional practical skills, apart from military drills, which 
was meant to make them nationalists. However, his primary 
assignment at the Ministry of Agriculture gave him an 
44    
Obadare, “Statism”, p.1845 
Chris Ikporukpo. 70 years. Interview conducted on 26 September 202046
Ibid.
NYSC AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT IN NIGERIA, 1973-2019 537
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

opportunity to learn many things which he did not acquire from 
the university. For instance, he read crop protection, but served 
in the Fishery Department of the Ministry of Agriculture, which 
made him to learn the fishery aspect of agriculture. This made 47 
him to become an all-round agricultural expert. Abiodun Sanni 
who served in Kano between 1980 and 1981 had a similar 
experience. According to him, apart from drill activities, there 
were some non-drill activities which included talks and 
addresses by the NYSC officials. This involved language 48 
teaching, among others. He also noted that there were sports 
activities for recreation and integration.
Similarly, Mojeed Kolawole Akinsola served between 1980 
and 1981 in old Imo State, comprising the present Imo and Abia 
States. He did his primary assignment at the Girls' Secondary 
School, Okigwe, where he taught Physics. He confessed that he 
acquired new skills during the service year, noting that although 
he was a science student, his areas of specialty were 
Mathematics and Chemistry. However, his teaching of Physics 
at the Girls' Secondary School, Okigwe, during his service year 
made him to become an all-round science student, which gave 
him the opportunity to become a principal of a science school, 
much later after NYSC before he joined the University of Ibadan 49
as a lecturer.
As argued earlier, considering that the NYSC was mainly 
conceived and established for the purpose of national 
integration and unity, its emphasis and focus in its early years 
were primarily on producing patriotic and detribalised 
Nigerians. However, this does not imply that manpower 
development did not occur. The argument here is that by this 
time manpower development was not one of the primary foci of 
the Corps, but only resulted from the activities of the corps 
members in their places of primary assignment, as they 
happened to learn some practical skills and further developed 
47 
Gabriel Ifo Atiri. 67 years. Interview conducted on 27 September 202048 
Abiodun Sanni. 65 years. Interview conducted on 25 September 202049 
Mojeed Kolawole Akinsola. 66 years. Interview conducted on 27 September 2020
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020538
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

their manpower, most especially in public service areas such as 
schools, local and state government secretariats, government 
agencies and parastatals, among others. This is due to the 
dominance of the government in the economy of the country in 
the post-civil war period. This explains the posting of Chris 
Ikporukpo to Shinkafi Government Secondary School in 
1973/74; Gabriel Atiri to the Ministry of Agriculture in 1976; 
Abiodun Sanni to Bayero University Kano in 1980 and Mojeed 
Akinsola to Girls' Secondary School, Okigwe in 1980. According 
to Ikporukpo, he was one of the few graduates in the school in 
addition to the principal and two Indian couples. This shows 
that by this time, the corps members were in fact an important 
addition to the manpower of the Nigerian socio-economy. 
Abiodun Sanni's experience in 1980 was similar to that of 
Ikporukpo's in 1973. Sanni also did his primary assignment in a 
school, Bayero University Kano, where he became a Graduate 
Assistant in Micro Biology Department. Akinsola's experience 
was the same. Although he read Mathematics and Chemistry, he 
became the only Physics teacher in the Girls' Secondary School, 
Okigwe, in 1980/81, because the school had no Physics teacher.
The implication of this for manpower development was that 
the majority of the corps members who served in the first two 
decades of its establishment acquired practical skills in teaching, 
administrative jobs, public service, and the likes, not because of 
any special and conscious policy of the NYSC as was later the 
case in the 2000s, but unconsciously through their places of 
primary assignment. This enabled corps members to be 
employed in the sectors with public orientation. For, instance 
Chris Ikporukpo eventually ended up as a Professor of 
Geography at the University of Ibadan and metamorphosed into 
a Vice-Chancellor at the Niger Delta University. Like Ikporukpo, 
Abiodun Sanni also ended up as a lecturer at the University of 
Ibadan, where he climbed to the rank of Professor, while Gabriel 
Atiri became a Professor of Agriculture at the University of 
Ibadan.
NYSC AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT IN NIGERIA, 1973-2019 539
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

However, in the 1990s into 2000s, the private sectors began to 
gain momentum. This included the rise of the banking and 
insurance sectors, among others. This also affected the NYSC 
scheme in that the human resources department of these sectors 
began to go to the NYSC orientation camps to give talks and 
sensitisation to the corps members, as well as invite them to their 
establishments for primary assignment, thus influencing them 
and impacting on their capacity. As a result, some of the corps 
members gained knowledge in areas different from their fields 
of academic qualification. Some of them, by so doing, gained 
practical experience and ended up working in those sectors. For 
instance, Sulaiman Kunle Teslim who served in Kwara in 1990 
noted that banks, engineering firms and agricultural firms 
visited their orientation camp for talks and advertisement of 50 
their establishments. As a result, he did his primary assignment 
at Colas Consultants, where he learned to practice design with 
computer as well as application of innovative lotus 1,2,3 
different from practical calculation. He admitted that the 
practical skills he acquired from his place of primary assignment 
are useful in his current practice as a civil engineer.
However, this gradual shift in the non-drill activities in the 
orientation camps in the 1990s, characterised by the intervention 
of private sectors, was not the case in all states of the federation. 
For instance, Aina Olubukola Adeogun, who served in Banue 
and Kogi States in 1990 had a different experience. She noted that 
there were neither companies nor private establishments that 
visited their orientation camp for talks, and therefore, apart from 
the drills and the orientation by the NYSC officials, there was no 51 
new practical skills learnt at the orientation camp. She was of 
the opinion that during their time, the graduates possessed 
sufficient manpower and that their education was robust 
enough to make a difference. She added that their expertise and 
manpower were exploited to bring about economic 
development of the country, coupled with the fact that they were 
50 
Sulaiman Kunle Teslim. 55 years. Interview conducted on 24 September 202051 
Aina Olubukola Adeogun. 52 years. Interview conducted on 24 September 2020
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020540
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

used to inject fresh ideas into the educational system. According 
to her, 'It was like cheap labour to be able to train the 52
educationally disadvantaged areas.'
Bamidele Dahunsi's experience was similar and 
contemporaneous with Adeogun's. Dahunsi served in Plateau 
State in 1990. By that time, Plateau State included the present 
Nasarawa State. Thus, the orientation camp was in Akwanga 
which is in present Nasarawa State. He acknowledged that there 
were some corporate bodies who came to give talks at their camp 
and that those talks were aimed at providing field experience to 
corps members. His primary assignment was at workshop of the 
Nigeria Army Engineers, Jos, where he participated in vehicle 
repairs, including armoured personnel carriers. This, according 
to him, helped to improve the skills he already had as a student 
of Agricultural Engineering. It also enabled him to become 
professionally active today, although he is now a lecturer. He 
admitted that the skill of field involvement was mainly what he 
gained from NYSC, apart from which he would have been an 53
armchair engineer.
Similarly, Kehinde Olujimi Eyiomo did his NYSC 
programme in Taraba State between 1991 and 1992. He is a 
sports enthusiast and sportsman by profession. He noted that 
there were no non- drill activities which took place in their time. 
His primary assignment was at Taraba State Sports Council, 
where he coached and trained the athletes. He confessed that the 
skills which he acquired from his work schedule during his 
NYSC prepared him for the coaching profession which he is 
doing today. It was the experience he derived from the NYSC 
that enabled him to go to the National Institute for Sports (NIS) 
for his professional qualification, which enabled him to become 54
a qualified and certified coach.
52 
Ibid.53 
Bamidele Dahunsin. 53 years. Interview conducted on 27 September 202054 
Kehinde Olujimi Eyiomo.  64 years. Interview conducted on Monday 14 September 
2020
NYSC AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT IN NIGERIA, 1973-2019 541
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Lanre Oladoyimbo served in Anambra State in 1996. He 
noted that apart from drill activities, there were non-drill 
activities that took place in the orientation camp. He recalled that 
the Society for Family Health paid them a visit and gave them 
talks on the activities of the Society, which became useful to 55 
those of them in the medical profession. He did his primary 
assignment at the Nnamdi Azikiwe University Teaching 
Hospital where he became Head of Hospital Statistics. This 
accorded some him practical skills and experience such as the 56
use of computer in data analysis.
Chris Omoregie who served in Sokoto State between 1999 
and 2000 confirmed that in their time, there were non-drill 
activities at the NYSC Orientation Camps. According to him, 
beyond the para- military drills and parades, there were 
seminars and skills acquisition programmes, anchored mostly 
by the agencies of the NYSC. Omoregie, who did his primary 
assignment in a secondary school, noted that as a graduate of 
education to whom teaching practice was one of the components 
of his teachers' training and preparation, there was nothing new 
to him about teaching in a secondary school in Sokoto during his 
service year. However, he acquired practical experience of 
teaching students outside his socio- cultural environment. In 
addition, the experience further prepared him for the teaching 
profession which he is currently undertaking at the University 57
of Ibadan.
Beyond manpower development,  the NYSC programme 
fostered national integration and nation-building, to which the 
corps members whose experiences have been reviewed testified. 
These corps members were all united in the opinion that their 
views about the other sections of the country changed as a result 
of their participation in the NYSC programme, which enabled 
them to live among those people. They gave testimonies of love 
and affection which they enjoyed from the members of the 
community where they served.
55 
Lanre Oladoyimbo. 52 years. Interview conducted on 24 September 202056 
Ibid.57 
Chris Omoregie. 53 years. Interviewed conducted on Wednesday, 16 September 2020
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020542
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

For instance, Ikporukpo talked about the cordial 
relationship that existed between the corps members and the 
host community where he and other corps members served. 
According to him, there was nothing to fear. They were free to 
move around at will. Everyone showed them love and affection. 
Some of the friends he made during his NYSC programme in 
1973/74 are still his friends till date, most of them from the 
northern part of the country where he served. He cited example 
of Bafarawa who was his student at Shinkafi Government 
Secondary School and who later became the Executive Governor 
of Zamfara State, and with whom he has maintained contact up 58
till date.
Gabriel Atiri noted that it was during his service year that he 
went to Sokoto and the north in general for the first time in his 
life. He argued that his participation in the NYSC in Sokoto 
made him to change his views about the northern part of the 
country as he was able to have a firsthand knowledge of their 59 
culture and traditions.
Abiodun Sanni who served in Kano in 1980/81 recounted 
how they usually visited Abubakar Rimi's house for feeding and 
other forms of hospitality whenever they wanted, maintaining 
that the corps members were treated with love and protection 
and were regarded as the children of the government, until the 
mid-1990s when things began to change due to the crisis that 
attended the annulment of the Presidential election of June 12, 60 
1993. Akinsola also revealed that he was still in contact with the 61 
traders whom he met in Imo State up till date. Bamidele 
Dahunsi remarked that NYSC created the avenue for him to 
meet people from diverse backgrounds, some of whom he is still 62
in contact with till date.
According to Kehinde Eyiomo who served in Taraba State in 
1991/92, he was able to have a change of perception about the 
58   
Chris Ikporukpo. 70 years. Interview conducted on 26 September 202059   
Gabriel Ifo Atiri. 67 Years. Interview conducted on 27 September 202060   
Abiodun Sanni. 65 years. Interview conducted on 25 September 202061   
M. K. Akinsola. 66 Years. Interview conducted on 27 September 202062 
Bamidele Dahunsin. 53  years. Interview Conducted of 27 September 2020
NYSC AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT IN NIGERIA, 1973-2019 543
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

northerners in Nigeria, and this enabled him to integrate 
properly into the environment. According to him, he did not 
entertain any form of discrimination and that the Taraba State 
Sports Council wanted to retain him after his NYSC programme, 
but he did not stay back because he proceeded to the National 63
Institute for Sports for further training.
From the foregoing discussions, it is clear that the NYSC 
delivered in its mandate to bring about national integration and 
nation-building from its inception in 1973 up till 2000. In 
addition, it also provided platforms for manpower 
development, even though it was not part of its original 
mandate.
Youth Unemployment and NYSC's Attention to Manpower 
Development, 2000-2020
As has been noted in the previous section, Nigerian graduates 
did not entertain the problem of unemployment in the first three 
or four decades after independence. Even before graduation, 
some business concerns went to universities to head-hunt 
potential graduates for employment. Part of the reasons for this 
is due to nature of education system as well as demographic 
factors in relation to the available opportunities for 
employment. By then, the quality of education was much 
stronger than what came afterwards, coupled with the fact that 
increased in population led to increase in educated population 
outnumbering the openings for employment.
However, from the late 1900s into the 2000s there occurred 
some changes both in the standard of education and in 
demography, in relation to openings for employment. This 
culminated in an era in which the NYSC began to show 
conscious interest in developing the manpower of the corps 
members so as to make them either competitively employable or 
self-reliant. By so doing, the NYSC tried to provide avenues for 
the acquisition of practical skills and experience by the corps 
members. This was against the backdrop of the fact that the 
63 
Kehinde Eyiomo. 64 years. Interview  conducted on 14/09/2020
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020544
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

corps members of those years showed less evidence of practical 
experience unlike their predecessors, whose training were 
indeed comprehensive and rounded. In this way, the NYSC 
officials in different states collaborated with corporate bodies 
and various establishments in orienting the corps members 
while in the camp and in providing them with opportunities for 
primary assignment, which eventually culminated in the Skills 
Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development Programme 
(SAED) in 2012.
For instance, Donatus Esimekhuia who served in Kano 
between 2002 and 2003 corroborated this evidence, noting that 
HIV clubs as well as Road Safety club were formed by corps 
members as a result of the interventions of these agencies at the 64 
orientation camp. Some of these corps members ended up 
being recruited into these agencies during their primary 
assignment and after their national service. Some of these corps 
member so recruited did not study courses related to these 
agencies, but acquired the requisite skills during their service 
year.
Oluwatosin Adeniyi who served in Kebbi State between 
2003 and 2004 recounted a similar experience. According to him, 
he participated actively in non-drill activities such as poetry 
recitals and cultural dances, and also provided support for the 
Orientation Broadcasting Service (OBS). He noted that there 
were quite a number of companies and organisations that came 
to give talks at the orientation camp. These included the Zenith 
Bank Plc, which came to give interesting talks on financial 
institutions and financial management as well as the Federal 
Road Safety Corps (FRSC), which gave talks on road safety 
protocols. These activities at the orientation camp provided him 
and other corps members with some practical skills, which they 
did not get from their tertiary education training. For instance, it 
was the talks given by Zenith Bank Plc that made him to develop 
interest in the banking sector, to which he ventured after his 
NYSC, before going back to the University for his Postgraduate 
64 
Donatus Esimekhuia. 45 years. Interview conducted on  24 September 2020
NYSC AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT IN NIGERIA, 1973-2019 545
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Programme. Again, his participation in the quarter guard at the 
orientation camp instilled in him a different understanding of 
discipline, and his occasional engagements with Orientation 
Broadcasting Service further sharpened his communication 
skills, which is instrumental in his current lecturing profession 65 
in Economics Department of the University of Ibadan. Adeniyi 
who did his primary assignment at Haliru Abdu Secondary 
School, Jega, Kebbi State taught Mathematics and Economics 
and also acted as the football team assistant coach. In addition to 
the new practical skills which he acquired at the orientation 
camp, there were other skills he also acquired at his place and of 
primary assignment. According to him, the most profound was 
the capacity to listen and the patience to allow learners grow at 
their own pace. This was against the backdrop of the fact that 
most of the students could not communicate in English 
Language. He also noted that the communication and teaching 
skills he acquired were undeniably part of the bedrock of his 66
present professional dossier as a University lecturer. In terms of 
integration into the community, he said he enjoyed warm 
friendship from both the old and young members of the 
community. At some point, according to him, he was even 
drafted into the community football team as a midfield player. 
The team was a closely-knit family and he did not feel 
uncomfortable being a non- indigene for once. His one year in 
Kebbi State opened him up to the truism in the notion of a 
“shared humanity”. The northerners he encountered at work 
and across social spaces showed him love both verbally and with 67
tangible actions.
Abayomi Ige who served in Abia State between 2003 and 
2004 also had a similar experience. He said there were corporate 
bodies that came to organise seminars in their orientation camp. 
His place of primary assignment was at the School of Nursing, 
Federal Medical Centre Umuahia, where he learnt teaching 
skills, definition of marking scheme, talking to people, class 
65 
Oluwatosin Adeniyi. 41 years. Interview conducted on Monday, 14 September 202066 
Ibid.67 
Oluwatosin Adeniyi. 41 years. Interview conducted on Monday, 14 September 2020
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020546
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

management skills, students-teachers interaction, among other 68 
things. He remarked that he went to Abia State for the first time 
in his life by virtue of NYSC and that it was an interesting 
experience, which changed his perception about other peoples 
of Nigeria. As a result, he has learnt to base his judgement not on 
hearsay, but on personal experience.
Similarly, Aliyu Umar Tambwal who served in Oyo State 
between 2004 and 2005 had the same cheering testimony as 
Oluwatosin Adeniyi and Abayomi Ige concerning the role of the 
NYSC in manpower development and nation-building. Aliyu 
noted that the process of manpower development and nation- 
building by the NYSC always begins from the orientation camp 
and dovetails into the place of primary assignment. According 
to him, while in the orientation camp at Iseyin, Oyo State, there 
were so many memorable experiences ranging from the 
paramilitary drill activities to the non-drill activities such as 
lectures and talks by various organisations and business 
enterprises aimed to acquaint the corps members with all 
manners of practical experience and skills. He maintained that 
the appearance of such companies as Calipso liquor, United 
Bank for Africa, Zenith Bank, Union Bank, Gulder Ultimate and 
their talks as well as the programmes they organised resulted in 
some corps members becoming part of the workforce of these 69 
organisations. At his primary assignment at Fiditi Grammar 
School in Afijio Local Government, Aliyu taught Geography. 
The practical experience he acquired during this period 
endeared the teaching profession to him. Similarly, the 
welcoming and warm relationship he enjoyed in the 
southwestern part of Nigeria coalesced to shape his personality. 
As a result of these factors he decided not only to pitch tent with 
the teaching profession, but to stay behind in the southwestern 
Nigeria for a while, leading to his movement into the University 
of Ibadan for a postgraduate programme, which enabled him to 
68 
Abayomi Ige. 42 years. Interview conducted on 27 September 202069 
Aliyi Umar Tambwal. 46 years. Interview conducted through telephone 
on Tuesday 22 September 2020.
NYSC AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT IN NIGERIA, 1973-2019 547
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

become a lecturer in the Department of Geography, Uthman 
Dan Fodio University, Sokoto.
Adebayo Philip Adenuga noted that in Taraba State where 
he served between 2005 and 2006, they were visited by banks at 
the orientation camp, although not for any form of career talks 
but for advertisement of the banks' activities in order to get more 
customers. According to him, as part of non-drill activities, 
cultural dance, football competition, as well as parties were 
organised, and all these activities fostered integration among 70 
corps members who came from diverse backgrounds. He did 
his primary assignment at the Federal Technical College Jalingo 
where he taught Technical Drawing and Automobile 
Technology. As a result, he was able to acquire new skills in the 
use of scanning machine to detect fault in vehicles, a technology 
which by then was very new. He also noted that the experience 
he acquired from the NYSC helped him in his current career in 71
automobile practice.
In Nasarawa State, the story is the same. Akin Tella who 
served between 2006 and 2007 talked about football competition 
and dramatic performances as part of the non-drill activities that 72 
occurred at their orientation camp. He noted that the National 
Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), NAPTIP, and Bank 
of Industry (BOI) all came to their orientation camp for career 
talks. He remarked about how as a result of his participation in 
the NYSC, he gained new practical skills such as better internet 
surfing, preparation of lesson note, research based-teaching, all 
of which he learned from Solid Rock International College, 
where he did his primary assignment. This skill is helping him 
today in the preparation of lecture notes as well as delivery of 
lectures which he practicalised using the secondary school 
students during his service year. His use of computer during his 
service year is instrumental in his online research activities in his 
70 
Adebayo Philip Adenuga. 48 years. Interview conducted on 24 September 202071 
Ibid.72 
Akin Tella. 35 years. Interview conducted on 25 September 2020
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020548
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

73
current career trajectories.
Dapo Olakunlehin who served in Cross River State between 
2007 and 2008 had almost the same experience as Tella who 
served in Nasarawa. Olakunlehin noted that they played host to 
the NDLEA, NAPTIP and BOI at their orientation camp. His 
primary assignment at Calabar Municipal Council and later at 
Kanu Agabi & Associates gave him the skills in the area of 
preparation of deed, case management, confidence in 74
appearance in court, being a lawyer by profession.
Ayotunde Ebenezer Adeloye who served in Anambra State 
in 2011/2012 noted that he participated in both drills and non-
drill activities that went on at the orientation camp. From the 
drill of the parades, he was able to learn some safety skills as well 
as exercise regimes. Similarly, he also learnt some new practical 
skills from the non-drill activities. For instance, there were 
mandatory talks given by different facilitators and organisations 
such as NIM, ISMN, FRSC, FCMB, CDS group, just to mention a 
few. All these organisations provided practical skills which 
became instrumental in shaping the personalities of the corps 
members outside their university of education. Apart from 
manpower development which went on at the orientation camp 
at Umunya, there were activities aimed at fostering national 
integration. Adeloye noted that the State Ministry for Culture 
and Orientation had facilitators present at the camp to educate 
them on the culture and traditions of the host communities. As a 
result, he was able to learn cultural fluency and cultural 
intelligence, Igbo language skills, among others. Adeloye who 
did his primary assignment at Okija Grammar Schooll, Okija, in 
Ihiala Local Government Area, served as a French teacher for 
junior secondary students and also doubled as a class teacher. 
From this assignment he was able to develop and acquire 
healthy dose of practical educational psychology, all of which 
became handy while teaching the Basic French class between 
73 
Ibid.74 
Dapo Olakunlehin. 36 years. Interview conducted on 25 September 2020
NYSC AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT IN NIGERIA, 1973-2019 549
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

2012 and 2013, as well as GES 108 students at the University of 75
Ibadan since 2018.
Ester Obimdi who served in Ogun State in 2015/2016; 
Somtochukwu Onumba who served in Abuja in 2016/17; 
Racheal Ogbonna and Ebunoluwa Fawole who also served in 
Abuja in 2018/19, and Uloma Eke who served in Edo State in 
2019/2020 all corroborated the forgoing testimonies of 
manpower development resulting from their participation in 
the NYSC scheme, coupled with the national integration and 
nation-building possibilities inherent in the programme.
The NYSC accentuated its attention on manpower 
development beginning from the late 1990s and it climaxed in 
2012 with the introduction of the Skills Acquisition and 
Entrepreneurship Development Programme (SAED). This 
SAED project deserves some special analytical attention.
NYSC's Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship 
Development Programme
As has been noted earlier, the first three decades of the existence 
of NYSC was the period of major focus on national integration 
and unity, with minimal attention on manpower development. 
This is due to the fact that by then there was no problem of 
manpower arising from strong and viable education system, 
demographic factor and availability of employment 
opportunities for the extant graduates. However, this was not 
the case starting from the late 1990s. Not only was there a 
dwindling standard of education, there was also increase in 
population which also translated to increase in the number of 
graduates visa-a-vis the available opportunities for 
employment. This made the NYSC to accentuate its attention of 
manpower development among the corps member.
However, the problem of youth and graduate 
unemployment aggravated such that in 2012, the Federal 
75 
Ayotunde Ebenezer Adeloye. 34 years. Interview conducted on Thursday 17 
September 2020.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020550
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Government of Nigeria introduced into the NYSC a training 
programme known as the Skills Acquisition and 
Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) project. The purpose of 
the project was to enable graduates to acquire skills which will 
enable them to be self-reliant in order to tackle the problem of 
unemployment and underemployment among them. Thus, 
SAED project has the mandate to provide youth corps members 
open access to acquire vital and essential skills and resources 
necessary to be successful in entrepreneurship. SAED, as a 
department in NYSC, is headed by a Director and is made up of 
two divisions, namely: Skills Acquisition Division and 
Entrepreneurship and Empowerment Division. These two 
departments have the responsibilities to, among other things:
1. give orientation to and train over 200, 000 corps members
for skill acquisition yearly;
2. assist in training and tutoring of 100, 000 young graduates in 
skills acquisition and entrepreneurship development for 
self-reliance annually;
3. develop an entrepreneurship partnership between the 
private sector and the public sector.
4. provide new ways and methods on how best Nigerian 
youth employment and empowerment can be achieved;
5. support evidence-driven funding programmes and 
formulate policies that enhance youth employment and 
empowerment;
6. organise orientation and training sessions on the 
importance of corps members to enroll into the skills 
acquisition and entrepreneurship development programs;
7. develop a standard curriculum for the in-camp skills 
acquisition exercise;
8. identify organisations at state level to provide training and 
mentoring in specific skills sets;
9. attach corps members to the various organisations for skills 
acquisition and entrepreneurship development.
10. monitor and supervise trainee corps members; and
NYSC AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT IN NIGERIA, 1973-2019 551
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

76
11. facilitate access to available funding opportunities
At the end of 2012 Batch 'B' orientation course, 45,000 corps 
members had been trained in various skills, and this as follows: 
5, 404 in agro-allied skills; 5, 509 in food processing; 8, 035 in 
culture and tourism; and 5, 062 in cosmetology. Similarly, there 
were a total of 8, 119 corps members trained in ICT; 2, 885 in 
power and energy; 2, 672 in environment; 2, 837 in 
beautification; 2, 057 in construction and 2, 425 in education. 
Between 2012 and 2019, the NYSC-SAED project had trained a 
total of 971,272 corps members in skill acquisition programmes 
77
while 7000 had established their preferred businesses.
Challenges of NYSC and Manpower Development
Arubayi argues that dominant social constructions based on age 
and transition patterns undermine the impact/effective 
functioning of one's capabilities for addressing national 
development challenges, concluding that limited support 
structure during the youth educational paths and lack of 
opportunity structures while youths are in the NYSC pathways 
continue to limit the functioning of their capabilities in sectors of 78 
national development needs. NYSC's development of youth 
capabilities for national development is underpinned by the 
four sector (education, health, infrastructure, and agriculture) 
deployment policy, which ironically excludes fourteen other 
sectors of the economy that contribute to Nigeria's GDP. This 
creates deployment traps that limit the effective functioning of 79 
youth capabilities. Consequently, he noted that findings from 
76
MtormaBari Tambari Deebom and Ilomabo Taylor Daerego. 'The Influence of National 
Youth Service Corps Entrepreneurship Skill Acquisition Programmes on Youth 
Empowerment in River State.' International Journal of Humanities, Social Sciences and 
Education (IJHSSE), Vol. 7, Iss. 6 (June 2020), 14877 
Thisday, 6 February 2019; Alson see MtormaBari Tambari Deebom and Ilomabo Taylor 
Daerego. 'The Influence of National Youth Service Corps Entrepreneurship Skill 
Acquisition Programmes on Youth Empowerment in River State.' 14978
Arubayi. “Youth Development”, p.1179
Arubayi. “Youth Development”, p.188
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020552
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

the study suggest that although 60% of youth capabilities fit the 
pre-given four deployment sectors, only 69% of youth 
respondents are deployed to areas where they can effectively 
function based on their specialisations or capabilities, 
suggesting therefore that the effective contributions of youth 
capabilities to national development through the NYSC 
pathway could be more robust if deployment is not constrained 80 
by the four (4) sector deployment policy. Raimi and Alao have 
critically evaluated the cost and benefits of the NYSC scheme 
against the backdrop of remarks that the scheme has lost its 
relevance and has not really helped to accelerate socio-economic 
development of the country as stipulated in the Handbook of the 
NYSC. They argue that despite the huge financial and human 
resources given to the NYSC, there has been no return-on-
investment on the part of a youth corps member or the nation 
within the last ten years except for the enrichment of the pockets 81
of those hired to manage the NYSC scheme.
In his article in the Nigerian Tribune, Sunday, July 8, 2012, 
Banji noted that nearly forty years after its establishment, NYSC 
scheme has been threatened by protests occasioned by security 
challenges. These include protests by corps members posted to 
such states that their lives would appear to be in danger due to 
the Boko Haram insurgency. This has resulted in fears that the 
NYSC scheme might have outlived its relevance. Similarly, the 
relevance of the NYSC programme was called to question with 
the pronouncement by the House of Representatives on 
Tuesday, July 3, 2012, barring the NYSC Secretariat from posting 
corps members to volatile states in the northern parts of the 82
country.
According to Okafor and Ani, the early phase of the program 
recorded the problems of corruption, language barriers as well 
80
Ibid.81 
L. Raimi and O. Alao. “Evaluation of the Economics (Cost and Benefits) of National 
Youth Service Corps for Sustainable Development in Nigeria.”Humanomics Vol. 27, No.4, 
2011, p.22782
Fatai Ayinde Aremu. “National Youth Service Corps Programme and the Quest for 
Policy Consideration.”Journal of Management and Social Sciences Vol. 7, No.1, 2018, p.280
NYSC AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT IN NIGERIA, 1973-2019 553
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

as hostile culture, just as the contemporary Nigerian society has 
been overtaken by the destructive wind of insecurity, which has 83
affected the NYSC scheme. Similarly, Anthony Onyishi and 
Christian Ezeibe noted that the NYSC was established to pursue 
goals roughly similar to those of Americorps. However, the 
current situation suggests that there has been a fundamental 
departure from the original aims of the scheme in favour of 
essentially mere post-graduation ritual—a prerequisite for 
employment. They posited that the NYSC has thus far failed to 
sustain a verifiable connect between the policy goals and 
institutional/structural mechanisms upon which it should have 84
been embedded.
Conclusion
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) was formed in 1973 as 
a post-war mechanism for the development of common ties 
among the youth of Nigeria and for the promotion of national 
unity among the various sections of the country. 
Notwithstanding its original mandate to bring about national 
integration, it also contributed to national development through 
skill and 'manpower development' of the Nigerian youth. By so 
doing, it has helped in building and sharpening the human 
capital and in developing the skills, knowledge, attitudes and 
competence of the corps members in order to meet the current 
and future organisational requirements and goals of the 
country. This was affected through various means, such as 
experiences acquired at the orientation camp and at the place of 
primary assignment.
There are some dynamics in this process of manpower 
development under the auspices of the NYSC as have been seen 
in the body of the essay. For instance, from the inception of the 
83 
Chukwuemeka Okafor and Johnmary Ani. “The National Youth Service Corps 
Programme and Growing Security Threat in Nigeria.” Africa's Public Service Delivery 
Performance Review, p.14984 
Anthony Onyeishi and Christian Ezeibe. “National Youth Service Corps Scheme and 
National Development in Nigeria.” Asian Journal of Research in Social Sciences and 
Humanities Vol. 4, No 4, 2014, p.455
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020554
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

scheme in 1973 until about the 2000s, manpower development 
was not the main focus but national unity and national 
integration. This was due to the exigency of the time occasioned 
by the civil war that occurred between 1967 and 1970. 
Notwithstanding, manpower development was unconsciously 
and tangentially achieved through the assignments which the 
corps members carried out during their service years. However, 
from the late 1990s into the 2000s, there followed a paradigm 
shift in the modus operandi and consciousness of the NYSC, 
characterised by its interest in manpower development of the 
participants. As a result, conscious efforts were made by the 
scheme to help in the human capital development of the corps 
members. Part of the reason for this new trend was the 
dwindling fortune of education in Nigeria, coupled with the 
shrinking of employment opportunities for the teeming 
Nigerian graduates. Therefore, there was the need to inculcate 
the skills in the corps members that would enable them to be 
more employable and self-reliant after the NYSC programme. 
This culminated in the introduction of the Skills Acquisition and 
Entrepreneurship Development Programme is 2012.
This contribution of the NYSC to manpower development of 
the Nigerian youth has implications for the economic 
development of the country, as the corps members constituted 
manpower and human resources for the various government 
agencies and private organisations in the country. As has been 
seen, the corps members in the early years of the establishment 
of the NYSC constituted the critical mass of the manpower for 
various facets of the public sector in the country, both during 
and after their service years. Beyond manpower development, 
the NYSC has also delivered on its original mandate of fostering 
national unity among the Nigerian youth, as the corps members 
are able to meet and interact with their colleagues from diverse 
backgrounds as well as the people of the host communities who 
have different cultural backgrounds from the corps members. 
This has implications for nation-building and national 
integration.
NYSC AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT IN NIGERIA, 1973-2019 555
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Unfortunately, the social cohesion in Nigeria began to 
crumble in the mid-1990s due to the political developments in 
the country. The annulment of the presidential election of June 
12, 1993 and the crisis that ensued afterwards contributed to the 
gradual erosion of the post-war national unity which the NYSC 
has contributed to building over the years. The subsequent crisis 
in the country occasioned by the introduction of Sharia in some 
northern states in 1999, coupled with election crisis in the north 
in 2007 and 2011, in which corps members were targeted and 
killed inaugurated the call from some quarters for the total 
abolition of the scheme. This has been aggravated by the rise of 
the Boko Haram insurgency in 2009 and its ferocious attacks on 
some parts of the country, which has made it even more 
dangerous for corps members to be posted in those areas.
Notwithstanding these challenges, the NYSC has made 
tremendous contributions to national integration, nation 
building and manpower development in Nigeria. All these 
efforts have also had some positive impacts on socio-political 
and economic development of Nigeria.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020556
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Bibliography
Secondary Sources
Akwara, Azalahu Francis. 'The Role of the National Youth 
Service Corps in National Development in Nigeria: A Case 
Study of the National Youth Service Corps Scheme in 
Cross River and Akwa Ibom States of Nigeria.' MSC degree 
project submitted to the Department of Political Science, 
University of Nigeria, Nsukka, 1991,
Amao, T. A. National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Contribution 
to Development in Nigeria.' Commonwealth Youth and 
Development. Vol. 10, No.2, 2012, p.90
Amassoma, Dimitri J., Ayanda, Dauda O. and Tijani, 
Kamiludeen. 'Internet Usage among Nigerian Polytechnic 
Students and its Impact on Manpower Development: A 
Case Study Approach.' Journal of Information Technology 
Impact Vol. 10, No.3, 2010, pp. 161-170
NYSC AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT IN NIGERIA, 1973-2019 557
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Aremu, Fatai Ayinde. 'National Youth Service Corps 
Programme and the Quest for Policy Consideration.' 
Journal of Management and Social Sciences Vol. 7, No.1, 2018, 
279-296
Arubayi, Dereck Osadere. 'Youth Development: Understanding 
the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) to Nigeria's 
National Development.' A thesis submitted to the 
University of Manchester on Degree of Doctor of 
Philosophy in Development Policy and Management in 
the Faculty of Humanities, 2015
Ben, Camilus Bassey andAshang, Michael Ushie. 'The Role of 
ICT in Skilled Manpower Development through 
Vocational Technical Education among Higher 
Institutions in Cross River State, Nigeria.' International 
Journal of Vocational and Technica; Education Vol.5 No.5, 
2013, pp.92-99
Bika, Kareem and Ehiorobo, Abraham. 'Assessing the Impact of 
National Youth Service Corps Scheme on Socio-Economic 
Development in Nigeria.' Ilorin Journal of Human Resource 
Management (IJHRM) Vol. 3, No. 1, 2019, pp. 109-119
Ekhomu, O. 'Evaluation of Manpower Utilization in Nigeria: 
The Case of the National Youth Service Corps (Allocation, 
Development, Motivation, Matrix-Organization, Human 
Capital)'.
Eneagwea, G. and Umoden, G. NYSC: Twenty Years of National 
Service. Lagos: Gabumo Press, 1993
Hassan, Moshood Ayinde. 'Manpower Development for 
Workers in Tertiary Institutions: Distance Learning 
Approach.' International Education Studies Vol.4 No.2, 2011, 
pp.89-101
Kennedy, John F. Statement by the President upon Signing the 
Manpower Developments and Training Act, March 15, 
1962. Malaolu, Victor A., and Ogbuabor, Jonathan 
Emenike. 'Training and Manpower Development, 
Employee Productivity and Organizational Performance 
in Nigeria: an Empirical Investigation.' International Journal 
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020558
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

of Advances in Management
and Economics Vol. 2:5 (2013), 163-177
Obadare, Ebenezer. 'Statism, Youth and the Civic Imagination: 
A Critical Study of the National Youth Service Corps 
(NYSC) Programme in Nigeria.' Centre for Social 
Development Report 05-18, 2005
Obi-Anike, Happiness Ozioma, Ofobruku, Sylvester Abomeh 
and Okafor, Chikodili Nkiruka. 'Manpower Development 
and Employees' Prformance: Oualitative Assessment of 
Small and Medium Scale Business in Abuja Nigeria.' 
Journal of Economics, Management and Trade 18:3 (2017), 
pp.1-6
Okafor, Chukwuemeka and Ani, Johnmary. 'The National 
Youth Service Corps Programme and Growing Security 
Threat in Nigeria.' Africa's Public Service Delivery 
Performance Review, p.
Okafor, Emeka Christian. 'The Role of Vocational and Technical 
Education in Manpower Development and Job Creation in 
Nigeria.' Journal of Research and Development Vol. 2 No.1, 
2011, pp.152-159
Okereke, Chukwunenye Iheanacho and Igboke, Beatrice 
Nnenna. 'Training Manpower Development and Job 
Performance: Perception and Relevance among civil 
Servants in Ebonyi State, Nigeria.' Journal of Economics and 
International Finance Vol. 3: 6 (2011), pp.399-406
Okolie, Ugochukwu Chinonso and Ogbaekirigwe, Charles. 
Entrepreneurship Development through Vocational 
Education and Manpower Development in a Developing 
Economy.' Journal of Education Policy and Entrepreneurial 
Research Vol. 1 No.2, 2014, pp.151-157
Ologunowa, C. S., Akintuinde, B. A., and Adu, B. O. 'Manpower 
Training and Development: Pathway to Efficient 
Organizational Perfomance.' American International Journal 
of Research in Humanities, Arts and Social Sciences 9:1 (2014), 
pp.44-52
NYSC AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT IN NIGERIA, 1973-2019 559
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Onyeishi, Anthony and Ezeibe, Christian. National Youth 
Service Corps Scheme and National Development in 
Nigeria.' Asian
Journal of Research in Social Sciences and Humanities Vol. 4, No 4, 
2014, pp.455-465
Oshima, Harry T. The Role of Manpower Development in 
Postwar Asian Differential Growth. University of the 
Phillipines, School of Economics Discussion paper 7902 
February 1979. Peretomode, V.F. and Chukwuma, R. A.. 
Manpower Development and Lecturers' Productivity in 
Tertiary Institutions in Nigeria.' GYANODAYA—The 
Journal of Progressive Education Vol. 5:4 (2012), pp.17-24
Peretomode, Victor F. and Ikoya, Peter. 'Mentorship: A Strategic 
Technique for Achieving Excellence, Manpower 
Development and Nation Building.' Mediterranean Journal 
of Social Science Vol. 10:2 (2019), pp.18-26
Raimi, L. and Alao, O. 'Evaluation of the Economics (Cost and 
Benefits) of National Youth Service Corps for Sustainable 
Development in Nigeria. Humanomics Vol. 27, No.4, 2011, 
pp.270-281
Sommerfield, Donald A. 'The Prediction of Trainee Success in 
Manpower Development and Training Programs.' A 
Master's degree Thesis submitted to the Faculty of the 
School of Graduate Studies, Western Michigan University, 
Kalamazoo, Michigan, 1966
Urama, Musa Sheriff and Ndidi, Okorieocha. 'Manpower 
Development in Technical and Vocational Education 
(TVE): A Prerequisite for the Technical Development of 
Nigeria.' Knowledge Review Vol. 26, No. 4, 2012, pp.129-135
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020560
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Chapter Eighteen 
THE NYSC AND YOUTH DEVELOPMENT IN 
NIGERIA
Maryam Hamza
Department of History & War Studies 
Nigerian Defence Academy
Kaduna, Nigeria.
Introduction
Since time immemorial, various communities and countries, all 
over the world, have developed different arrangements for the 
capacity development of their youths, as the latter are always 
considered the forthcoming generation that would carry on with 
the ideals and aspirations of the society. This makes necessary 
the development and enhancement of youth capacity to take 
over from older generation. The United Nations echoed to the 
world the vital role youths play in the society by declaring 1985 
as “The International Youth Year for Development and Peace”. 
Real emphasis was given to the demographic significance, 
essentiality and dynamism of youths to the society, with a 
reiteration of the fact that youths make tremendous 
contributions to the society at all levels as actors, players, 1 
partners and strategic catalysts for development. Nigeria's 
former President Olusegun Obasanjo expounded on the 
importance of the nation's youth population and their strategic 
importance to development by stating that:
Youths are the foundation of a society. Their energy, 
inventiveness, character and orientation define the 
pace of development and the security of a nation. 
1
United Nations, “Youth and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development” United 
Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs, New York: UN Press, 2018. pWhitlock, J 
(2004), “Understanding Youth Development: Principles and practice” Act for Youths 
Center of Upstarts and Excellence , Cornel University, University of Rochester and New 
York Center for School Safety, p. 1.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Through their creative talents and labour power, a 
nation gains strides in economic development and 
socio-political attainments. In their dreams and hopes a 
nation founds her motivation, on their energies, she 
builds her vitality and purpose. And because of their 
dreams and aspirations, the future of a nation is 2
assured.
This is to emphasise the significance of youths in development, 
and Nigeria is not an exception of this global trend. This means 
that any nation of the world that neglects the reevance of youth 
engagement in the socio-economic advancement of her strategic 
populace does so at its own detriment.
From pre-colonial to colonial and into the post-colonial 
periods, youth development programmes in Nigeria have been 
going on in local and informal contexts in terms of 
apprenticeship, military training, informal education, and 
mentorship, among others. During colonialism, Western 
education under the British system targeted the youths who 
later, as patriots and nationalists, used their newly acquired 
knowledge to wrestle power from the British. After 
independence however, the first National Development 
Planning lacked any serious arrangement for the development 
of the youths. Between 1967 and 1970, Nigeria experienced a 
civil war after which there was a second National Development 
Plan which was deliberately dominated by the agenda of post-
war healing and rebuilding. It had the famous 3Rs policy of 
reconstruction, rehabilitation and reconciliation in its mandates, 
and later the National Youth Service Corps Scheme (NYSC) in 3 
1993. The NYSC was the first and is still the most dominant and 
largest organised government arrangement targeting the 
Nigerian youths that constitute about 60% of the country's 
population. It has had and still has tremendous political, 
2 
Hamilton S.F (et. al) (2004), “Principles for Youth Development” in Hamilton and M.A 
Hamilton (ed) “ The Youth Development Hand Book: Coming of Age in American 
Communities”, Thousand Oaks: Sage Publication Plc, p. 3
3
As quoted in, Itai Kabonga, “Youth and Development in Ward three of Chegutu District, 
Zimbabwe”, International Journal of Research in Social Sciences, Vol.6, Issue 2, 2016, p.234
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020562
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

economic, and socio-cultural developmental impact on 
Nigerian youths across religion, ethnicity, tribe and region since 
its inception in 1973, despite the numerous challenges that have 
bedeviled the system.
It is against this backdrop that this chapter examines the 
programmes of the NYSC and how they target the development 
of the Nigerian youth. The chapter also examines past efforts at 
youth development as well as NYSC's effort at the upliftment 
and development of the youths over time. Another area the 
present research deals with is the contributions of the NYSC to 
youth development over the years and the challenges 
encountered in the discharge of its duties. The chapter therefore 
flows in five sections. The first section gives a conceptual 
clarification of the key concepts of youth, development, and 
youth development. The second section focuses briefly on the 
philosophy behind the creation of the NYSC and attempts to 
ascertain the connectivity of the scheme with youth 
development. The third section analyses the impact of the NYSC 
on youth development. The fourth section examines the 
challenges associated with youth development and the way 
forward. The fifth section is the conclusion.
Conceptual Clarifications 
Youth
The definition of youth varies with the laws of different 
countries and international bodies. Youth could be described in 
terms of age, physical appearance or psychological attributes, 
psychological instincts, moral and social value, sentiments, 
aspirations and temperament, among others. They generally fall 
into the category of juvenile, adolescent, and adult. In the United 
States of America, youth are defined as individuals within the 
age bracket of 17 and 24 years for purposes of participation in 4 
certain programmes. The United Nations Organisation defines 
4 
Arubayi, D.O “Youth Development: Understanding the Contribution of the National Youth 
Service Corps to Nigerian National Development” Phd Thesis, School of Environmental, 
Education and Developmental Studies, Faculty of Humanities, University of Manchester, 
2015, p78-83
THE NYSC AND YOUTH DEVELOPMENT IN NIGERIA 563
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

5 
youth as someone from 15- 24 years of age. The Nigerian 
National Population Commission defines youth as someone 
from between 15 and 35 years of age. Based on its act, the 
National Youth Service Corps recognises a youth as someone 6 
that is below 30 years of age. The age bracket of those serving is 
mostly from twenty to thirty years, since the scheme exempts 
those above thirty years. The Nigerian educational system 
mostly graduates secondary school students at the age of 
eighteen and the minimum years to spend in Nigerian 
university is four years. This makes it possible for a twenty-two 
years old graduate to be a corps member, although corps 
members below age twenty-two are sometimes called up due to 
some factors. These factors include as spending fewer years 
studying abroad, skipping classes in secondary and primary 
schools, or getting into the university before 18 years. On the 
other hand, graduates sometimes fraudulently back date their 
ages to fall below thirty for one reason or another in order to 7
serve.
Gowon posits that youth is an impressionable stage, a time 
of emotional development, rapid change, idealism, adventure 
and even rebellion which, if not well managed, may be 
channeled into the harmful, unproductive and destructive 8 
occupations and pastimes. This shows that the youth in any 
society cannot be underestimated and neglected as doing so will 
leave this forceful group of young persons at a great 
disadvantage to themselves and the society at large.
The NYSC scheme has been used as an initiative to engage, 
mold, and transform the youth population that have ultimately 
contributed significantly to societal development.  From the 
2,364 corps members that served in 1973, the number has risen 
5 
Raimi L & Alao O. 2011, “Evaluation of the Economies (Cost and Benefits) of National 
Youth Service Corps for Sustainable Development in Nigeria” Humanomics Vol. 27 No.4, 
p. 2726
Secretary-General's Report to the General Assembly, A/36/215, 19817 
Obadare E. 2016, “Statism, Youth and Civic imagination: A Critical Study of the NYSC 
Program in Nigeria” Center for Social Development, Global Service Institute, 
Washington University, St. Louis. p. 218 
Obadare E. 2016, “Statism, Youth  and Civic…. p.22
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020564
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

over the decades. By 2005, some 85,000 corps members were 9 
mobilised to serve, and as at 2019 about 300,000. youths were 
mobilised to serve in the NYSC Scheme, all of them graduates 
from the various tertiary institutions from Nigeria and abroad. 
The number of youths the scheme has mobilised, integrated and 
partly empowered over the years is an indication that to an 
extent the scheme has achieved some of its core objectives.
Development
Development is a broad concept that encompasses social, 
economic, political, and human variables. The United Nations 
Development Programme (UNDP) sees development as “to lead 
long and healthy lives, to be knowledgeable, to have access to 
the resources needed for a decent standard of living and to be 10 
able to participate in the life of the community”. Achieving 
development is viewed as freeing people from the obstacles that 
affect their ability to develop their own lives and communities. 
Development is empowerment; it is about people taking control 
of their lives, expressing their demands and seeking and taking 
charge of their own solutions to their problems. According to S. 
Burkey, economic and political development must translate into 
social development. As a broad concept, development has been 
extensively explored with a view to realising economic growth 
and socio-economic advancement as the determining factors in 
societal transformation. Economic growth may bring material 
gain to the people but development is much more about 11
enrichment of the lives of all the people in the society.
S. Todaro defined development as not purely an economic 
phenomenon but rather a multi-dimensional process involving 
the re-organisation and re-orientation of the entire economic 
and social system. In addition to improvement in incomes and 
9 
Gowon Y. 1994, “A Keynote Address” paper presented at the Second Global Conference 
on National Youth Service Scheme, Abuja.10 
Nwouso, M. 2019, “Youth Entrepreneurship among University Graduates in Anambra 
State” Phd Dissertation, College of Social and Behavioral Sciences, Walden University, p. 
9811 
UNDP Nigeria 1998: Nigeria Human Development Report. Lagos.
THE NYSC AND YOUTH DEVELOPMENT IN NIGERIA 565
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

output, development typically involves radical changes in 
institutional, social, and administrative structures, as well as in 
popular attitudes and in many cases, even customs and 12 
beliefs.” His definition of development revolves around 
improving the quality of all human lives with three equally 
important aspects. These aspects are, first, raising a people's 
living levels, i.e. incomes and consumption, levels of food, 
medical services, education through relevant growth processes. 
Secondly, creating conditions conducive to the growth of 
people's self-esteem through the establishment of social, 
political and economic systems and institutions which promote 
human dignity and respect. Thirdly, increasing peoples' 
freedom to choose by enlarging the range of their choice 
variables, e.g. varieties of goods and services. It could be argued 
that all these, to an extent, have been covered by the NYSC 
scheme which will be shown in subsequent sections of this 
study.
To Walter Rodney, development is a process of change that 
is many-sided involving individualism, social stratification/ 
castes and the society at large. He maintains that individual 
development, though sometimes moral, is tied to the overall 
development of the state. Individualistic development has 
exhibited strength to single- handedly improve people's ability 13 
to live better lives. As it were, personal development is a 
lifelong process. It paves the way for people to assess their skills 
and qualities, consider their aims in life and set goals in order to 
realise and maximise their potential.
Youth Development
Youth development is defined as: 
a strategic approach with a focus on practices for 
engaging entire communities in helping all youths 
12
Burkey S. 1993, People First: A Guide to Self-Reliant, Participatory Rural Development , 
London: Zed Books, p.3813 rd th 
Todaro M.& Smith S.C. (2015), Economic Development in the 3 World., 12 Edition, New 
York: Pearson, p.16.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020566
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

thrive. It builds on traditional youth service 
approaches by emphasising long term, systemic 
strategies for cultivating qualities and traits 
desirable in young people through the creation of 
environments that support their developmental 14
needs and capacities.
There are basically three aspects of youth development 
identified. They are (a) natural (which is more of physical 
growth, traditional self-awareness of the environment and the 
use of other parts of the body for most basic human activities; (b) 
Principle (which emphasises the agency of institutions, 
organisations and individuals for capacity building and growth 
of the youths especially in the community level); and (c) Practice 
(the practical application of the principles acquired to foster and 
enhance the growth and the effectiveness of the natural 15 
growth). The NYSC programme mostly falls within the practice 
and principle categories. This can be deduced from its objectives 
as enshrined in the National Youth Service Act of 2004 which 
clearly targets not only national unity, cohesion and integration, 
but also overall youth development in social, cultural, economic 
and political aspects.
14
Rodney W. (1983), How Europe Underdeveloped Africa , London: Bogle-L'Ouverture 
Publications. p.115 
Whitlock, J (2004), “Understanding Youth Development: Principles and practice” Act 
for Youths Center of Upstarts and Excellence , Cornel University, University of Rochester 
and New York Center for School Safety, p. 1.
THE NYSC AND YOUTH DEVELOPMENT IN NIGERIA 567
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Philosophy of the NYSC
Fig. 33: The International Youth Day Celebrations Organised by the 
NYSC Kubwa Camp, 2017
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) was created by 
Decree no. 25 of 22 May 1973 during the reign of General Yakubu 
Gowon. It was later revised and replaced by Decree no. 54 of 16 
June 1993 and enacted to the ACT of parliament as NYSC ACT 
Cap. 84 in 2004, and put under the jurisdiction of the Federal 16 
Ministry of Youths and Sports. This legal instrument is a 
compulsory programme designed for all graduates of tertiary 
institutions such as universities and polytechnics primarily “to 
inculcate in Nigerian youth the spirit of selfless service to the 
community and to emphasise the spirit of oneness and 
brotherhood of all Nigerians irrespective of cultural or social 
background”. The scheme was meant to encourage the 
16 
Hamilton S.F (et. al)(2004), “ Principles for Youth Development” in Hamilton and M.A 
Hamilton (ed) “ The Youth Development Hand Book: Coming of Age in American 
Communities”, Thousand Oaks: Sage Publication Plc, p. 3
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020568
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

development of common ties among the Nigerian youth by 
promoting national unity, development of the Nigerian youth 17 
and Nigeria into a great and dynamic economy. The scheme 
consists of four cardinal programmes within each service 
national year which every corps member must go through. 
These programmes are: (a) the twenty one days' orientation 
program in a military boot camp which is highly regimented; (b) 
Primary Assignment (PPA) which see the posting of corps 
members to public and private sectors of the Nigerian State that 
runs concurrently with (c) the Community Development Service 
(CDS), a weekly engagement of grouped corps members to 
identify and solve at least one problem of their host 
communities; and lastly (d) the passing out parade and issuing 18
of the certificate of national service to corps members.
The philosophy behind the creation of the NYSC is national 
unity, integration, development and creation of sense of national 
consciousness among the Nigerian youths. In places where there 
is no single ethnic, mythological origin, the only way to develop 
national unity and consciousness is through such arrangement 
as the NYSC. Added to this was the unfortunate events that led 
to the Nigerian Civil War that further deepened the animosity 
between different Nigerian regions and ethnicities, hence, there 
was a need for a template that could integrate the future 
Nigerian generation. The scheme aims at inculcating discipline 
in Nigerian youths by instilling in them a tradition of industry at 
work, and of patriotic and loyal service to Nigeria in any 
situation they may find themselves . The scheme also aims at 
raising the moral tone of the Nigerian youths by giving them the 
opportunity to learn about higher ideals of national 
achievement, social and cultural improvement; while focusing 
on developing in the Nigerian youths the right attitudes and 
mind set, acquired through shared experience and suitable 
17 
Arubayi, D.O. (2015), “Youth Development: Understanding the Contribution of the 
National Youth Service Corps to Nigerian National Development ” Ph.D Thesis 
Department of Development Policy and Management, University of Manchester. p. 8418 
NYSC Handbook for Members, National Youth Service Corps, Nigeria. 1999.
THE NYSC AND YOUTH DEVELOPMENT IN NIGERIA 569
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

training, which will make them more amenable to mobilisation 19
in the national interest.
The NYSC ACT further aims at empowering Nigerian 
youths to acquire the spirit of self-reliance by encouraging them 
to develop skills for self-employment, to contribute to the 
accelerated growth of the national economy. It is also geared at 
developing common ties among the Nigerian youths and 
promote national unity and integration. Moreover, the ACT sets 
out to remove prejudices, eliminate ignorance and confirm, first 
hand, the many similarities among Nigerians of all ethnic 20 
groups. The scheme has given room for convergence of diverse 
persons and ideas of different ethnic and religious backgrounds 
while exposing to all a true sense of communality and 
universality, rather than the particularity of humanity aimed at 
breaking barriers and mutual distrust between all. The scheme 
exposes the similarities between us all as a people, which is one 
of its cardinal aims and objectives. Also, given the paucity of 
economic opportunities in Nigeria, rising spate of 
unemployment occasioned by the huge number of graduates 
being released every year into the labour market, if the scheme 
had been absent there would have been economic crunch and 
pressure on the nation. Yet, again, the NYSC is a “stop-gap” 
without which there would have been a crisis. Thus, the scheme 
offers opportunity for a first-time employment to young 
graduates. This has enabled many mobilised youths to know 
and take their bearing in life. It has also afforded them focus and 
helped to expose their hidden talents and potential which is 
beneficial to not only them, but the nation at large.
Also, the scheme has enabled many corps members to raise 
capital from their monthly stipends which, together with the 
training they receive during their service year, they have been 
able to eke out a living while transforming themselves, their 
immediate communities, and the nation at large. The acquisition 
19   
Arubayi, D.O. (2015), “Youth Development: Understanding… p.8420
National Youth Service Corps Act, Chapter 84, Section One, Article one and two, 2004
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020570
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

of skills by many corps members is made possible because of the 
Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship programmes (SAED) 
created by the NYSC. The SAED is a compulsory skill acquisition 
programme that introduces or exposes every corps member to 
skill acquisition by making it mandatory for every corps 21 
member to belong to a skill acquisition group. Based on the 
existing demography of Nigerian, the youths (14-35) who are in 
the majority and constituting more than 60 % of the Nigerian 22
population, stand to benefit from the NYSC . They Nigerian 
youth also stands to benefit both directly and indirectly from the 
scheme in the course of their one-year mandatory national 2 3  
service. These benefits include skills acquisition, 
empowerment, exposure of hidden talents and potential, 
national cohesion and so on. Not only the corps members, but 
even the non-graduate youths also benefit from the scheme in 
their various communities as a result of activities of corps 
members. Since the Nigerian youth constitutes the larger 
percentage of the Nigerian population, any policy that 
addresses their development is a welcome development, and 
translates to a brighter future for the Nigerian State.
Contributions of the NYSC to Youth Development in Nigeria
Indisputably, the NYSC scheme over the years has had 
tremendous political, administrative, economic and social 
impact on Nigerian youths, which has enhanced their 
development and increased their capacity. Young persons have 
benefited materially and intellectually and have acquired 
proper life orientation in different aspects of their lives. 
Arguably, it is the most enduring programme that has impacted 
on the lives of hundreds of thousands if not millions of Nigerian 
youths across religious, ethnic and regional milieu.
21
National Youth Service Corps Act, Chapter 84, Section One, Article one and two, 200422 
Isa Wana, 50, NYSC State Coordinator, Kaduna State Secretariat interviewed at the th  
Kaduna State NYSC Secretariat on 4 October, 202023   
National Bureau of Statistics, 2018.
THE NYSC AND YOUTH DEVELOPMENT IN NIGERIA 571
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Fig. 34.1: The NYSC Band Performing at a Function, 2019
Fig. 34.2: The NYSC Band Performing at a Function, 2019
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020572
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

In the first instance, the nation does not have any outfit where 
Nigerian youths express themselves and derive benefit from the 
resources of the country like the NYSC. From birth through the 
education process, including the secondary school and tertiary 
institution, there is not a single programme that gives the 
Nigerian youth any form of succor like the NYSC. The scheme is 
a “stop- gap” between ideals and realities. During school years, 
most young people learn about theories and philosophies of an 
ideal and hypothetical society. In reality, such societies are a 
mirage especially in the Nigerian state. Thus, the first step of the 
NYSC, right from the orientation camp, is to dissuade corps 
members from that idea of an ideal society, and make them 
understand society differently from what they have learnt in 
schools and away from the illusion of encountering a model 
functional society. The scheme exposes youths to the reality of 
how the society really is and the absolute need for them to make 
their contribution to the nation by developing their individual 
mental state and discover their unique membership of 24 
nationhood. While schools are a collection point of young 
people, a place of convergence of youths from diverse families 
mostly from the same region, the NYSC has been able to bring 
youths from diverse backgrounds. For many, it is a convergence 
of youths from different ethnic and religious background for the 25
first time ever.
Throughout the course of the one-year mandatory national 
service, the youths are equipped with political, administrative, 
organisational, management and leadership skills and 
capabilities. At the first instance, after posting, they are required 
to report to their respective orientation camps all over the 36 
states of the country and the federal capital territory on short 
notice. On setting their foot on the military boot camp, they 
would find themselves in a highly organised, regimented and 
disciplined environment.
24      
“People and Society: Population”, World Fact Book, the Central Intelligence Agency, 
2017. (accessed on 1st October 2020).25 
Mr HA Nasamu, 54, Director, Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Department. th 
Interviewed at the Gowon House, NYSC Headquarters, Abuja, 25 September, 2020.
THE NYSC AND YOUTH DEVELOPMENT IN NIGERIA 573
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

After the introductory climate setting lectures, corps members 
are acquainted with the first rules and regulations of proper 
conduct in the camp, and the disciplinary measures to be taken 
should these rules be broken. For many corps members, this 
first-time experience of being held responsible for any action or 
inaction may be their first contact at being held strictly 
accountable for their actions. They are compelled to be 
disciplined and have absolute respect for rules and regulations 
especially in a country where holding people accountable for 
their actions and getting adequate response (positive or 26
negative) for it is alien.
It is a daily routine at the orientation camp to receive series of 
lectures on politics, leadership, history, ideology, economy, and 
lofty values and ideals of the Nigerian State. Such orientation 
broadens their perspective and understanding of the Nigerian 
State. They are exposed to new knowledge and ideas that would 
help them to navigate the Nigerian socio-economic and political 27 
landscape after service. This initial sensitisation is usually a 
first- time experience for many young people. Therefore, the 
scheme has succeeded in creating an avenue for understanding 
the complexity of the matrix of the nation by youths who are 
experiencing other parts of the nation and people for the first 
time ever, which has also succeeded in clearing their 
misconceptions about other people from other parts of the 
nation. There is a cross breeding and synergy of new ideas, 
experiences and knowledge across the nation. There is also the 
importation of ideas by students from within the nation and 
overseas which has been made possible by the scheme. This has 
been facilitated by the deployment of the policy, in the scheme, 
of structural uniformity across board that brings corps members 
from different and diverse ethnic and religious groups and 
backgrounds other than their states of origin across the 36 states 
26 
Isa Wana, 2020.
27   
Arubayi, D.O (2015) “Youth Development:” p87
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020574
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

of the federation, including FCT, to meet, mix and interact with 28
one another to promote cohesion and integration.
The three weeks' orientation camp for corps members 
exposes them further to a number of things that impact 
tremendously on them. Foremost among these is the fact that 
during the orientation, corps members are usually organised 
into military-like platoons. The platoons, numbered one to ten, 
consists of more than one hundred corps members. Each platoon 
is headed by a corps member who is democratically elected. 
Thus, the leadership and responsibility of each platoon is in the 
hands of one person under the observation of NYSC platoon 
staff advisers and the military platoon instructors, who is 
incorporated into the camp's chain of command. This introduces 
most of the corps members to election processes, contention, 
conceding defeat, obligation, responsibility and duty. Decision 
making is done democratically through discussion, deliberation 
and, if need be, election. This incorporates in corps members the 
task of leadership, responsibility, fairness, and leader/follower 
relationship in a mini Nigeria-like setting as the platoons 
comprises virtually every tribe, religion and gender from all the 
36 states and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. It is more of a 
deliberate leadership mentoring program that helps to shape 
and enhance the leadership capacity of the Nigerian youths. It 
develops and enhances their citizenship and leadership/ 29
followership capacity.
Thus, corps members are assigned different types of duties 
to incorporate them into the process of camp administration and 
decision making which further inculcates into them a sense of 
duty and leadership as they would one day be in a place to make 30 
hard decision. They are hence incorporated within the chain of 
command of the scheme from the Director General to the State 
28 
Obadare, E “Statism, Youth and Civic Imagination: A Critical Study of the NYSC 
Program in Nigeria” p1829 
G. Enegwea & G.Umoden, NYSC: Twenty Years of National Service, Lagos: Gabumo 
Publishing Company Limited, 2003, 4230 
Arubayi, D.O “Youth Development: Understanding the Contribution of the National 
Youth Service Corps to Nigerian National Development” p.87
THE NYSC AND YOUTH DEVELOPMENT IN NIGERIA 575
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Coordinator, Zonal Inspector (ZI), Local Government Inspector 
(LGI), Corps Liaison Officer (CLO), and Community 
Development Service (CDS) President. Adding to this is the fact 
that whatever chain of command or administrative structure 
they may encounter in their various places of primary 31
assignments also applies to them.
Furthermore, the corps members live a regimented lifestyle 
in camp. This is because the camp is a military boot camp 
subjected to the camp chain of command from the camp director, 
the camp commandant down to their respective platoon staff 
advisers, military instructors and corps platoon leader. This 
indeed helps them to live a regimented, well-ordered, 
disciplined and organised life for 21 days, which regulates 
virtually whatever they do from eating, sleeping, to other 32 
activities. This leadership mentoring programme not only 
inculcates in the corps members a sense of duty and 
responsibility on the part of the leader, it also impacts on the 
other corps members a sense of followership which entails 
cooperation in working with the platoon leader to accomplish a 
set mission. Therefore, youths are exposed through the scheme 
to have a high degree of responsibility, spirit of teamwork and 
cohesion, right from camp through service year and beyond. 
Indeed, this prepares them for the reality of what the society and 
future holds for them after service, when they find themselves in 
the various strata of the Nigerian or even foreign civil and public 
service or the private sectors. Their understanding of the concept 
of subordination to superior authority will help them to cope at 
such times.
The scheme is also the only avenue that brings youths close 
to the military in a formal setting. During the orientation 
exercise, there is constant interaction between the military 
leadership in charge of orientation camps and corps members. 
The military is perceived as an aggressive and brute profession 
31 
Umogha, M.A, (Mrs), 2018 Batch “B” stream “I” Camp Director, Iseyin, Oyo State 
Nigeria, 25, July, 2018.32 th
Bashir S, a Bauchi indigene served at Kaduna 2019 Batch “B”, interviewed 5 , Oct 2020.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020576
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

that is dreaded and thus the personnel are usually seen by the 
civilian community to be inhuman. The scheme has thus helped 
to debunk this wrong and erroneous perception about the 
military. For some corps members, the interaction between them 
and the military inspired them to join the military profession. 
Many have joined the short service courses and other arms of the 
military profession, either as professionals in their respective 33
fields or in combat roles.
Furthermore, duties during the orientation period are 
sometimes assigned according to the professional training of 
corps members. For instance, the medical students undergo a 
kind of twenty-one-day internship in the camp clinic by 
attending to the sick under the supervision of qualified medical 
practitioners in the camp. This surely enhances their knowledge 
as they stand to learn from the vast experience of the official 
physicians in the camp. Therefore, the scheme offers youths 
first-time opportunities to come face to face with their areas of 
specialisation by practicing what they learnt in school. This is 
one aspect of the scheme that has benefited the larger society. It is 
common knowledge that most public health centres across the 
nation do not have resident doctors especially in the rural areas. 
It is thus very common to see corps members as the only resident 34 
doctors serving in such capacities. Other corps members who 
studied media related courses for the first time find themselves 
in the Orientation Broadcasting Service where they are given the 
chance to practice what they studied at school. Most of the 
youths have never had the opportunity for practical sessions in 
their schools because of the dysfunctionality of the school 
system and the inadequacies of many Nigerian tertiary 
institutions in terms of laboratories for the practical aspects of 
their different courses. These youths are thus availed the 
opportunity to learn from veteran practitioners especially in the 
33 
Obadare, E “Statism, Youth and Civic Imagination: A Critical Study of the NYSC 
Program in Nigeria” p1834 
Abdulkadir Muhammad Ali, Head of Transport and Maintenance, NYSC Secretariat, th 
Kaduna State. Interviewed at the State Secretariat, on 4 October, 2020.
THE NYSC AND YOUTH DEVELOPMENT IN NIGERIA 577
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

field of program anchoring, broad casting, interview, public 
relations and so on. Also, students of catering also acquire 
further practical knowledge in the kitchen by working with 
camp cooks to prepare food for the whole camp. This exposes 
them to other new techniques in the preparation of especially the 
cultural food associated with the host community. For instance, 
a Yoruba or Igbo corps member serving in the north and 
assigned to the kitchen would learn the traditional northern 35
food. All the practical sessions experienced by corps members 
continues after camp, in their various places of primary 
assignments, where they are often posted based on their area of 
specialisation which further deepens their understanding and 
enhances their knowledge.
One of the cardinal objectives of the NYSC, apart from 
promoting national unity, is selfless service to fatherland and 
humanity. Using the Community Development Service 
therefore, the scheme has continued to touch the lives of both the 
corps members and the community in which they serve. The 
CDS is supposed to instill in corps members the virtue of dignity 
of labour and infuse them with a sense of pride at having to 
practically contribute to their local communities on 
developmental projects. The CDS is the most important aspect of 
the scheme as it has, over the years, recorded leaps in 
development of community projects. The CDS contributed to 
the development of basic rural infrastructure where corps 
members execute many works for their host communities. 
Through the CDS, the corps members harnessed their various 
skills, creativity and identify and solve at least one problem of 36 
their host communities.
They also partake in literacy programmes aimed at 
encouraging adult literacy and improving general education, 
especially in rural communities. The healthcare delivery system 
is one that has been positively impacted upon through the CDS. 
35 
National Youth Service Corps. 2016 Annual Report of the NYSC Scheme. p.3436   
Arubayi, D.O (2015) “Youth Development:” p88
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020578
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Youths get actively involved in immunisation campaigns, 
campaigns against AIDS/HIV, drug abuse and so on. Through 
the CDS, the NYSC has also succeeded in creating avenue for 
corps members and in communities where they serve to be 
actively involved in promoting sports and cultural activities. 
Corp members have also helped in developing community 
theatre, drama and dance group, which has positive impact on 
local inhabitants. The NYSC through the CDS has been involved 
in farming programmes and have gone ahead to establish a 
number of agro-based industries across different locations of the 
nation. This has also helped in providing employment to youths 
in those localities where these industries are located. As part of 
their community development services, the corps members 
have been engaged in designing, inventing and fabrication of 
simple machinery using local material while also engaging 
members of their host communities. As a result of the CDS, 
many corps members went on to engage in personal CDS and 
made personal sacrifices by building symbols, public toilets, 
class rooms and providing chairs to students and even roads. 
This has clearly shown that the ideals of selfless sacrifice have 37 
been deeply inculcated in them. For instance, those posted to 
sports CDS have to train in the various sports such as football, 
volley ball or attend gymnasium once in a week and constantly 
play matches with clubs in their host communities. This 
enhances their effectiveness and capability even after service; 
some became known to sport managers through such 
encounters that serve as their route for making it big in the sport 38 
industry. The corps members in culture and tourism and other 
CDS groups often visit the historical sites of their host 
community such as the museums, and this helps in widening 
their perspectives and knowledge about the history of the 39 
Nigerian society.
37 
Enegwea G & Umoden G( 2003), NYSC: Twenty Years of National Service, Lagos: 
Gabumo Publishing Company Limited, p. 4238     
Enegwea G & .Umoden G (2003),   NYSC: Twenty Years….p.42
THE NYSC AND YOUTH DEVELOPMENT IN NIGERIA 579
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The NYSC has also engaged youths who have contributed in 
many national assignments such as census or elections, which 
demands the labour of many agile Nigerians. Many corps 
members have been trained and extensively incorporated into 
the system. They go into the nooks and crannies of Nigeria to 
conduct elections and census. The corps members usually work 
as ad-hoc INEC staff in P.O (Presiding Officer) capacity 
responsible for a polling unit or voting point as the case may be 
and other strategic capacities. These herculean tasks expose 
corps members to further understand the complexity of decision 
making, administration, public responsibility, honesty, 
leadership, and the aspiration of the Nigerian electorates on 
their leaders. Thus, the corps members have proven to be 
indispensable stake holders in Nigerian election and democracy 
due to their effectiveness, endurance, skills, education, 
discipline and hard work, which they mostly acquire in the 
course of their service year, as it is difficult to finish the service 
year without going through such rigorous training and 40 
mentoring to carry out such tasks in an organised way.
Economic Development of the Corps Members 
Economically, the NYSC has contributed tremendously to youth 
development. As noted earlier, without the NYSC, there would 
have been an unemployment crunch created by fresh graduates 
that are released yearly from the universities with less 
employment opportunities due to paucity of empowerment 
prospects and opportunities. It is for this reason, as part of the 
scheme's effort at alleviating this economic crisis evident in the 
nation, that the scheme introduced the Skill Acquisition and 
Entrepreneurship (SAED) programme into the activities of the 
NYSC. The NYSC's Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship 
Development Department was created in March 2012. As earlier 
mentioned, the department introduced the skills acquisition 
39 
Anas Lawal, served 2018/19, Katsina State, Sports CDS Katsina, interviewed 25, 
Sept, 202040   
Arubayi, D.O (2015), “Youth  Development…p. 92
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020580
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

programmes to proffer solutions to the menace of 
unemployment and underemployment in the country. 
Unemployment is one of the causes of depression among the 
mammoth Nigerian youth population due to the limited 
employment opportunities. According to the Director of the 
SAED programme, the cardinal purpose of creating and adding 
this programme to the contents of the three weeks' orientation is 
for the sensitisation and mobilisation of corps members for 
compulsory skills acquisition and development of their 
entrepreneurial capacity with the sole aim of promoting self- 
reliance and self-employment during their service year and 
beyond. The scheme thus offers many youths an opportunity of 
a first-time new knowledge on different skills that are capable of 
giving them a start-off to economic independence. The corps 
members are compulsorily made to learn and understand the 
notion of self- sustenance where the basic and elementary 
knowledge is given that can avail them the opportunity to carry 
on with their lives even without a white-collar job thus reducing 
the strain on the labour market. This way they learn diverse 
41
skills both in theory and in practice.
The skills cut across various sectors of the economy, ranging 
from energy, construction, agro-business and environment. 
There are different aspects of skill training for the youths that 
focus on motor and automobile, cosmetology, education, 
cinematography, horticulture, construction, electrical and 
electronics, horticulture, poultry, snail farming, animal 
husbandry, fish farming, plantain and banana sucker plantation, 
catering, bead making, fashion designing, hairdressing and 
make-up, photography, graphics designing, and so on. The 
NYSC partners with different competent and experienced 
organisations to take corps members through the various skill 
acquisition programmes. The NYSC also partners with various 
professional bodies and organisation such as the Institute of 
41
Abba Murtala Kutama, a Kano indigene serves of Batch C stream 1, 2018, Served as a 
PO, at Kankara Local Government of Katsina.
THE NYSC AND YOUTH DEVELOPMENT IN NIGERIA 581
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN), Nigerian Institute of 
Management (NIM) to enhance the creativity of youths and give 
them easy access to join these professional bodies, mostly at 42
discounted amounts.
During the one-year NYSC period, many corps members 
usually learn how to manage their meager allowances by saving 
up these stipends into capital through which they are able to take 
advantage of the many economic opportunities in their 
respective host communities and the country in general. This 
goes a long way in creating self-reliance and self-employment 
for thousands of them. The service year also helps them to know 
some of the intricacies of most Nigerian economic sectors as it is 
expected of their employers in their various places of primary 
assignment to treat them as the staff of such organisations. Many 
corps members thus leave the orientation camp and their 
community of assignment as totally transformed youths.
The scheme does not only acquaint youths with the skill 
acquisition, it goes further to engage them after the orientation 
period by providing them some sort of support. Thus, there is 
both post-camp and post-service year engagements where corps 
members are linked with artisans in different fields of interests. 
They are also connected with different agencies and 
organisations that give soft loans or interest free loans. The only 
collateral needed for such loans are a business plan and 
certificate of national service. Such agencies are Bank of 
Agriculture, Bank of Industry, Central Bank of Nigeria. The CBN 
under its Youth Entrepreneurship Development programme 
launched in 2016 which serves as a springboard for youth 
empowerment also targets corps members and other youths for 43 
self-employment. The bank offers training to beneficiaries and 
42 
Mr HA Nasamu, 54, Director, Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Department. th 
Interviewed at the Gowon House, NYSC Headquarters, Abuja, 25 September, 2020. 43 
For poverty, unemployment and underemployment among the Nigerian youths see 
Akutson, S and Ishaku, J, “The Need for entrepreneurship Education In Our Tertiary st 
Institutions in the 21 Century: An economic and Religious Perspective” in Kaduna 
Journal of Historical Society, vol. 8, 2016, pp351-359.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020582
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

gives loans that should be paid back within a seven - year period, 
with two-year moratorium. The loan ranges from N150,000 to 
N250,000, and by the end of 2019 about N15,000,000 loans have 
been disbursed to corps members. The scheme's partnership 
with Bank of Industry under the BOI-NYSC Graduate 
Empowerment Fund has so far disbursed about N540,00,000 44 
loans to corps members by the end of 2019. These loans have 
helped not only corps members but other Nigerian youths to 
successfully establish business. This shows that these small 
businesses have reduced the strain on the labour market and 
Fig. 35: A Cross-Section of Corps Members at a Skills and 
Enterprenuership Workshop, 2020
43 
For poverty, unemployment and underemployment among the Nigerian youths see 
Akutson, S and Ishaku, J, “The Need for entrepreneurship Education In Our Tertiary st 
Institutions in the 21 Century: An economic and Religious Perspective” in Kaduna 
Journal of Historical Society, vol. 8, 2016, pp351-359.44 
Economic Confidential, (2020), “Skill Acquisition: NYSC trains 700,000 Corps 
Members” Media Assessment: Shuaibu Ibrahim's Silent Revolution in NYSC. Vol.1 
Abuja: Leadwatch Publications, p.72
THE NYSC AND YOUTH DEVELOPMENT IN NIGERIA 583
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

have helped with employment of other youths in societies where 45
they are located.
From 2012 when the SAED programmed started, about 
45,000 corps members have been trained; by February 2019 more 
than 971, 207 corps members have been trained and about 7000 
thousand of them established one business or the other, while 
some 1600 have become full time entrepreneurs with at least ten 46 
employees under them. By February 2020, the Director-General 
of the scheme, Brig. Gen. Shuaibu Ibrahim, stated that the 
number of youths that have been sensitised under the NYSC has 
risen to over 1,132,409 and over 700,000 have undergone various 47
forms of skills training under the SAED programme.
Interviews with some ex-corps members indicate how much 
the scheme has impacted on their economic development. For 
instance, Muhammad Bello, an ex corps member who served in 
Kaduna, contested and won 10, 000 naira during a camp SAED 
tailoring completion. He is now a professional tailor and does no 48 
longer bother to seek for a government job. Another ex corps 
member who is now in glass and aluminum making business 
submits that:
I attended SAED program in aluminum fabrication 
where I acquired the skills to make aluminum and glass 
windows and doors. I think the SAED program is 
indeed very good as it enables youths to learn skill 
acquisition on which they can rely   after their service. 
In order not to just rely on getting white collar 
job/government job, they can make use of what they 
45 
Economic Confidential, (2020), “Unemployment: CBN Promises 7year Loans for 
Corpers”” Media Assessment: Shuaibu Ibrahim's Silent Revolution in NYSC. Vol.1 
Abuja: Leadwatch Publications, p.7346 
Nwouso, M (2019), “Youth Entrepreneurship Among University Graduates in 
Anambra State” Phd Dissertation, College of Social and Behavioral Sciences, Walden 
University, p.16647 th   
This Day, 6 February 2019.48 
Nigerian Press Release (2020), “Shuaibu Ibrahim's Twelve-Month Innovative Strides in 
NYSC”, Vol.1 Abuja: Leadwatch Publications, p.104
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020584
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

acquire and still maintain and depend on it as means of 49
their livelihood.
Another ex-corps member also remarked that “NYSC as a 
scheme exposed me to new experiences which aroused my 
intense interest in entrepreneurship during my service year. 
Prior to my service, I have always dreamt of a civil service job but 
today NYSC has sold me brand new ideas which ultimately 
changed my mind - set through SAED. My destiny has changed 
for the better as I am now financially independent. I also have 
two other young persons working with me in my food 50
business”
Most of corps members have conceded that it was through 
the NYSC that they learnt how to develop a budget to start small 
scale enterprises. A study by Mike Nwosun on young graduate 
entrepreneurs in Anambra State shows that most of them save 
their meager NYSC monthly allowances to startup businesses 51 
while others were assisted with loans accessed. In essence, 
there is huge labour mobility and movement of capital within 
the nation involving youths. This has helped to improve the 
economy in no more small measure.
Added to this is the fact that the scheme also organises 
exhibitions where inventions and innovations by corps 
members from diverse technical fields are promoted and 
assisted to be able to explore their course contents and display 
their talents. Companies and industrialists usually scout for 
such talents. It should be noted that the yam pounding machine 
was first idealised and innovated by a corps member but was 
hijacked by the Japanese due to the unseriousness of the 52
Nigerian government.
49 
Muhammad Bello Abdussalam, an ex-corp member, 2019 batch “B” stream I, 
interviewed 2, October, 2020.50 
Hamza Muhammad, an indigene of Kaduna camped at Obubra camp, Cross Rivers, 218 th
Batch “B” Stream I, interviewed at Badarawa Kaduna on 6 , Oct 202051 
Jacob John, a Kaduna indigene served at Nasarawa State 2018 batch “B” Stream I.52 
Nwouso, M. (2016), “Youth Entrepreneurship Among University Graduates in 
Anambra State” p116
THE NYSC AND YOUTH DEVELOPMENT IN NIGERIA 585
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The scheme has also helped many youths to identify their 
hidden talents and potential which they possibly were not aware 
they possessed until they were called up for the service. They are 
able to develop these talents through various competitions right 
from orientation camp and beyond, in parades, camp night 
activities, drama, beauty contest, dancing, music, cultural 
display, and sports (such as football, basketball, volleyball, race, 
etc). All these have helped corps members in identifying their 
talents and further engaging them in future assignments. 
Ozinna submitted that during his orientation in 2015, he joined 
the cultural dance group and discovered he could dance after 
joining the group. Consequently, he was posted to the Kogi State 
capital where he became part of the state dance troupe where 
they usually went on different dance tours across the state and 
outside. Some of his colleagues also made that discovery during 
their service year and can now eke out a living out of that 53
accidental discovery.
As a result of the NYSC, many have also unconsciously self-
educated themselves and developed interest in one new skill or 
the other. For instance, many corps members accidentally 
stumbled upon their teaching potential from where they have 
steadily become professionals in the field. It is a policy of the 
NYSC to post corps members to teach in schools across the 
country, particularly in the rural areas. This has a highly positive 
impact on both the corps members and the young people who 
are being taught in such schools. It could therefore be argued 
that in most states of the federation, the public-school system 
would have been on shaky grounds or totally comatose without 
the presence of the corps members, particularly in the rural 
areas. Nigerians have a faulty attitude to government jobs, 
especially teachers in public schools. Many are on government 
payroll as teachers, but they have either abandoned their jobs or 
work in other private schools or organisations, and this is 
because there is lack of proper supervision in public schools. The 
53 
Isa Wana, October, 2020
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020586
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

pupils and students of such schools are therefore often times 
neglected and left without teachers. The NYSC is the only body 
that has succeeded to an extent in keeping the public-school 54
system alive.
Youths' Socio-Cultural Development Under the NYSC
The objectives of the NYSC reveal that it is a program that targets 
youths and promotes national unity through the removal of 
cultural and geographical bias. It does this by posting corps 
members to different states other than their states of origin and 
offering them training in endurance to overcome the problems 
associated with serving in such new environments. The training 
also helps them to integrate with, and acculturate the ways of life 55
of their host communities. Therefore, the scheme has helped to 
Fig. 36: Corps Members in a Cultural Day Outing, 2020
54 
Ozinna Ntukogu, 27, ex corps member from Anambra State Served in Kogi State, 2015, 
interviewed at the Centre For Leadership and Complex Military Operation, NDA, nd 
Kaduna on 2 October, 202055   
Isa Wana,     October, 2020.
THE NYSC AND YOUTH DEVELOPMENT IN NIGERIA 587
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

a large extent to eliminate prejudices and conservative attitude 
of some youths prior to their mobilisation for the NYSC. Most of 
the youths are exposed to different culture, traditions, norms, 
and perspective in life, and often transport these to different 
locations. This helps to broadens their minds, awareness and 
perspectives to become more cosmopolitan in national issues 
and national identity.
A graduate of Umaru Musa Yar' Adua University, Katsina, 
who served in Kaduna State pointed out that “the NYSC is very 
instrumental in sensitising me to know who I am as a Nigerian 
citizen, and to acknowledge the existence of other people totally 
different from me. My life was never the same after the 56 
orientation camp”. An ex-corps member admitted that before 
he embarked on the national scheme in Kogi State, he had no 
idea that there are persons among the Yoruba ethnic group that 
are Muslims. His service year also brought him close to Muslims 
for the first time in his life as he had never encountered any of 
them at close proximity, and so had no idea that it was possible 
for him to co-exist with Muslims in one space. From that service 
year, according to him, his whole perception about other parts of 
Nigeria and its people changed. This influenced his passion to 
learn more about the north, which brought about his eventual 57
migration to Kaduna State.
Furthermore, the NYSC helps to build bridges between the 
Nigerian youths upon whose shoulders the future of the nation 
rests, as the older generation would naturally soon pass out. 
Most of these young Nigerians were born, raised and 
educationally trained in their various localities within their 
respective states. Therefore, they may never have had the chance 
to visit other regions, a situation that would definitely impede 
national unity and development if such youths were to meet in 
the future as leaders to make decision say, for example, in the 
National Assembly or a national conference. With such a 
56 
Deabon, M.T and Daerego, I.T (2020), “The Influence of the National Youth Service Corps' 
Entrepreneurship and Skill Acquisition Program on Youths Empowerment in Rivers state” 
International Journal of Humanities and social Sciences, Vol. 7 Issue No. 6, pp146-14857   
Abdullahi Aboki, served in 2019 batch “C” Kaduna, interviewed 1st, Oct, 2020
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020588
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

localised exposure, such youths would naturally have remained 
narrow minded, thinking that Nigeria begins and ends in their 
various states or regions. However, through the NYSC, they are 
helped to build bridges and appreciate the diversity of the 
Nigerian state, as virtually every ethnic group, religion and state 
is represented in the orientation camp. Not only on camp, even 
in their places of primary assignment and through their 
Community Development Service (CDS), corps members that 
served together with others from different family and socio-
ethnic and religious backgrounds have a nationalistic 
perspective. During their one-year service they live like one big 
family with the espirit decorps disposition, and this helps them to 
create a sense of national identity which develops their capacity 
for future endeavors. This way, the NYSC's ideal of national 
unity, development and consciousness is realized. Another way 
this is achieved is through the idea of inter-marriages which the 
scheme encourages and has recorded between corps members 58
from different ethnic backgrounds.
In sum therefore, the NYSC, through all its programmes, 
have helped to educate Nigerian youths both formally and 
informally, as millions of them in Nigeria have benefitted from 
the program.
NYSC and Challenges of Youth Development
Despite the great and noble youth development ideals of the 
NYSC scheme and its major achievements, the scheme is still 
bedeviled with many challenges that continuously impact 
negatively on its performance. One of these challenges is the 
paucity of funds particularly in the SAED programme. Most of 
the programmes are underfunded and thus corps members have 
not been able to benefit maximally from the programme. Corp 
members also deal with insufficient capital to start a business 
after service year, after they have learnt different skills from the 
58 
Ozinna Ntukogu, 27, ex corps member from Anambra State Served in Kogi State, 2015, 
interviewed at the Centre For Leadership and Complex Military Operation, NDA, nd 
Kaduna on 2 October, 2020
THE NYSC AND YOUTH DEVELOPMENT IN NIGERIA 589
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

SAED programme. Many have great ideas that cannot be 
translated into reality and have had many entrepreneurial 
dreams shattered from prolonged non- implementation. Many 
accuse the government of only using the young graduates as 
sources of cheap labour and have not adequately intervened in 59 
giving them access to soft loans. The NYSC, on the other hand, 
has repeatedly defended itself by making references to the 
availability of loans through the Bank of Industry or the CBN to 60
corps members with clear business plans.
Many corps members are unable to continue with the skills 
they had started to learn during orientation. This is because of 
lack of follow up initiatives and adequate training facility after 
camp, especially with regards to the SAED programme. Most 
programmes end after the orientation camp, since corps 
members are not under any obligation to continue with the 
mandatory program when out of the camp. Apart from paucity 
of funds, some corps members are posted to deep rural areas 
where they do not have access to training facilities even if they 61
wish to continue.
The NYSC is a product of our society, thus, there is this 
nonchalance in the attitudes of corps members under the skills 
acquisition and towards the noble drill. There is deep 
misconception about the scheme by corps members who see it as 
an avenue to secure white-collar jobs only. Many others 
erroneously think that there will be ready jobs waiting for them 
after the service year; therefore, they end up disappointed and 
see the scheme as a waste of time. There is strict refusal by many 
to committedly engage in the skills acquisition programme, as 
many corps members see the skills acquisition as a waste of 
valuable time. Consequently, it is debatable to state that the 
scheme has not fully achieved its aim of unification of Nigerian 
youths across board which could have solved the problems of 
59 
See for example the National Youth Service's “Security Awareness Hand Book For Corps th 
Members and Staff” 8 edition 2018, by Watch on Security consultancy Service.60 
Nwouso, M “Youth Entrepreneurship Among University Graduates in Anambra State” 
16661 
Hamza H, 2020.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020590
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

ethnic and religion crisis. However, even if the scheme has not 
united the nation as expected, it has, at least, provided an avenue 
for integration and cohesion among the youths in that they do at 
least mingle with one another and understand that each and 
every person from whatever background is uniquely different. 
There is the nonchalance of the participation of other key 
components that make up the NYSC. The NYSC is not a federal 
service corp. It is rather supposed to be a partnership platform 
which requires the participation of the federal government, the 
state government, the local government, and the employers of 
labour with each having a role to play. In reality however, there 
is lack of commitment of these bodies because they erroneously 
believe that the NYSC is only a federal government organisation. 
Consequently, they do not give the scheme the needed and 
necessary support to succeed, so the scheme suffers greatly 
which is detrimental to development. Thus, the state and local 
governments contribute nothing while the scheme exists on 99% 62 
funding by the federal government. There is need for greater 
advocacy especially for all the partnering components to give 
adequate support to see to the success of the scheme. All 
components need to understand their respective role to keep the 
scheme afloat.
The NYSC is also a citizen of Nigeria, and just like every 
Nigerian citizen, it suffers from same problems every citizen 
suffers from. The scheme is bedeviled by national security 
challenges ranging from militancy to kidnapping, banditry, arm 
robbery, Boko haram, cultism, and ethno-religious violence. All 
these ills have hampered the youth development ideals of the 
scheme as many corps members would not be able to go to their 
areas of primary assignment if such areas, as Borno or Zamfara 
for example, are unsecured. Plying some Nigerian roads now is 
seen as dangerous mission as such roads have become 
kidnappers' den. Also, many corps members have lost their lives 63 
as a result of communal clashes and electoral violence. This 
62 
Jacob John 2020.63 
Enegwea G & .Umoden G, (2003),   NYSC: Twenty Years, p. 42
THE NYSC AND YOUTH DEVELOPMENT IN NIGERIA 591
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

resulted in mass out-cry by some Nigerians for the scrapping off 
of the scheme. There is also the issue of corruption on the part of 
the corps members which is disturbing, as there are corps 
members that go to their Places of Primary Assignment (PPA) 
only during the monthly biometric clearance; they usually 
connive with the NYSC officials especially at the local 
government level or the various heads of their PPAs to do this. 
This is a contradiction of the ideals of the scheme.
Many corps members are rejected from their initial PPA 
posting. This usually traumatises them as they are mostly 
strangers in these places. Most of the places of their initial 
postings are in their areas of specialization; so, when rejected 
they would have to scramble for any other place, which usually 
leads to their having to serve outside the area of their profession. 
This cripples their performance and reduces their zeal and 
morale. Many times, they have to contend with many 
inadequacies with regards to accommodation, transportation, 
lack of cooperation in their host communities, unavailability of 
portable drinking water, disregard by some employers, and so 
on. There is also the issue of corruption and lack of ethics by 
some elites in the society who want to do a quick fix for their 
wards to get the juiciest PPA in public and private institutions 
such as banks, insurance companies, and other “juicy” 
institutions. Although the NYSC always shows disgust for this 
practice, some unscrupulous staff of the scheme are still guilty of 64
these unethical practices
Conclusion
The chapter has examined the concept of youth development in 
local and international contexts, the philosophy behind the 
creation of the NYSC scheme, the Nigerian youths as the major 
beneficiaries of the scheme and the political, social and economic 
contribution of the noble scheme in the capacity building and the 
development of the Nigerian youths which prepares them for 
64 
Chukwemeka, O and John Man, A.K (2014), “NYSC program and growing Security 
threats” African Development Watch, Vol 2, No. 2, p.45
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020592
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

the future tasks of nation building and sustenance. The chapter 
also highlights some of the challenges bedeviling the scheme, 
especially with regards to the supposed beneficiaries, the 
Nigerian youths. The scheme is a product of its own society; as 
such, it suffers just like other Nigerians in such areas as 
insecurity, lack of adequate funding, poor electricity and water, 
insecurity, nonchalance of corps members towards the skill 
acquisition, abscondment from the place of primary assignment, 
and so on. The scheme may not have achieved all its cardinal 
objectives particularly in the aspect of national unity; however, it 
has promoted cohesion and integration to some extent. The 
paper therefore recommends that there should be greater 
advocacy so that all the components that make up the scheme 
will clearly understand their respective roles to keep the scheme 
afloat. These components include the state and local 
governments, and private individuals. The government should 
increase funding in many areas of inadequacies bedeviling the 
scheme, particularly the SAED programme. There should be 
backward and forward relationship. Backward relationship in 
the sense that the university system should rejig their 
curriculum to include the SAED (skills acquisition programme) 
so that the NYSC will continue from where the tertiary 
institutions stop. Forward relationship will mean that the 
government should increase the funding of corps members' 
proposals for businesses to allow for greater self-sustenance. 
There should also be engagement of private individuals and 
corporations in the development of youths in order to move the 
economy forward.
References
1. Arubayi, D.O, (2015) “Youth Development: Understanding 
the Contribution of the National Youth Service Corps to 
Nigerian National Development” Phd Thesis , School of 
Environmental, Education and Developmental Studies, 
Faculty of Humanities, University of Manchester.
2. Burkey S. (1993), People First: A Guide to Self-
THE NYSC AND YOUTH DEVELOPMENT IN NIGERIA 593
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Reliant,Participatory Rural Development, London: Zed Books.
3. Chukwemeka, O and John Man, A.K (2014), “NYSC 
program and growing Security threats” African 
Development Watch, Vol 2, No. 2,
4. Deabon, M.T and Daerego, I.T (2020), “The Influence of the 
National Youth Service Corps' Entrepreneurship and Skill 
Acquisition Program on Youths Empowerment in Rivers 
state” International Journal of Humanities and social Sciences , 
Vol. 7 Issue No. 6,
5. Department of Development Policy and Management, 
University of Manchester.
6. Economic Confidential, (2020), “Skill Acquisition: NYSC 
trains 700,000 Corps Members” Media Assessment: 
Shuaibu Ibrahim's Silent Revolution in NYSC. Vol.1 Abuja: 
Leadwatch Publications,
7. Economic Confidential, (2020), “Unemployment: CBN 
Promises 7year Loans for Corpers”” Media Assessment: 
Shuaibu Ibrahim's Silent Revolution in NYSC. Vol.1 Abuja: 
Leadwatch Publications,
8. For poverty, unemployment and underemployment 
among the Nigerian youths see Akutson, S and Ishaku, J, 
(2016) “The Need for entrepreneurship Education in Our st 
Tertiary Institutions in the 21 Century: An economic and 
Religious Perspective” in Kaduna Journal of Historical Society, 
Vol. 8, 2016.
9. G. Enegwea & G.Umoden, (2003) NYSC: Twenty Years of 
National Service , Lagos: Gabumo Publishing Company 
Limited.
10. Hamilton S.F (et. al) (2004), “Principles for Youth 
Development” in Hamilton and M.A Hamilton (ed) “ The 
Youth Development Hand Book: Coming of Age in American 
Communities”, Thousand Oaks: Sage Publication Plc.
11. Kabonga I, (2016) “Youth and Development in Ward 
threeof Chegutu District, Zimbabwe”, International Journal 
of Research in Social Sciences, Vol.6, Issue 2.
12. National Youth Service Corps Act, Chapter 84, Section One, 
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020594
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Article one and two, 2004
13. Nigerian Press Release (2020), “Shuaibu Ibrahim's Twelve- 
Month Innovative Strides in NYSC”, Vol.1 Abuja: 
Leadwatch Publications.
14. Nwouso, M (2019), “Youth Entrepreneurship Among 
University Graduates in Anambra State” Phd Dissertation, 
College of Social and Behavioral Sciences, Walden 
University,
15. Nwouso, M. (2019), “Youth Entrepreneurship Among 
University Graduates in Anambra State” Phd Dissertation, 
College of Social and Behavioral Sciences, Walden 
University,
16. NYSC Handbook for Members, National Youth Service 
Corps, Nigeria. 1999.
17. Obadare E. (2016), “Statism, Youth and Civic imagination: 
A Critical Study of the NYSC Program in Nigeria” Center 
for Social Development, Global Service Institute, 
Washington University, St. Louis.
18. Obadare, E “Statism, Youth and Civic imagination: A 
Critical Study of the NYSC Program in Nigeria”
19. People and Society: Population”, World Fact Book, The 
Central Intelligence Agency, 2017. (accessed on 1st October 
2020).
20. Raimi L & Alao O, (2011), “Evaluation of the Economies 
(Cost and Benefits) of National Youth Service Corps for 
Sustainable Development in Nigeria” Humanomics Vol. 27 
No.4,
21. Rodney W. (1983), How Europe Underdeveloped Africa , 
London: Bogle-L'Ouverture Publications.
22. Secretary-General's Report to the General Assembly, 
A/36/215, 1981th 
23. This Day, 6 February.
24. Todaro M.& Smith S.C. (2015), Economic Development in the rd th 
3 World., 12 Edition, New York: Pearson
25. UNDP Nigeria 1998: Nigeria Human Development Report. 
Lagos.
THE NYSC AND YOUTH DEVELOPMENT IN NIGERIA 595
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

26. United Nations, (2018) “Youth and the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development” United Nations Department of 
Economic and Social Affairs, New York: UN Press.
27. Whitlock, J (2004), “Understanding Youth Development: 
Principles and practice” Act for Youths Center of Upstarts and 
Excellence, Cornel University, University of Rochester and 
New York Center for School Safety.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020596
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Chapter Nineteen 
NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS AND 
THE LABOUR MARKET
Emma-Lawson Hassan
Department of History & Diplomatic Studies 
Federal University, Wukari
Introduction
Our focus in this paper is to look at the relationship that has 
existed between the NYSC scheme and the labour market with 
regards to the nature of specialised skills that the scheme has 
been able to pool over the years. These specialised skills cover 
the various aspects of input of manpower, and how this has 
impacted on nation building throughout the period of the 
scheme's existence. To be able to do this, the paper begins with 
an inquiry into the circumstances that informed the 
establishment of the NYSC programme by looking briefly at the 
colonial and immediate post- independence eras. The paper 
goes on to look at the objectives that the scheme was set up to 
achieve, its operation and the social environment within which it 
has been operating. The paper also looks at the relationship 
between the NYSC and the labour market in terms of the various 
skills that the participants in the national service have acquired 
and how these skills have been deployed as human capital to the 
various aspects of the Nigerian economy. Finally, the paper 
undertakes an analysis of the impact of the National Youth 
Service Corps on nation building by looking at its achievements, 
challenges and prospects.
Background to the Establishment of the National Youth 
Service Corps (NYSC) Scheme
A critical look at the NYSC programme is likely to begin with the 
question: why the NYSC? Several answers have been given from 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

both government circle and the general public as to why the 
scheme was established in the first place. Findings reveal that 
most of the answers given agree on the fact that having fought a 
civil war between 1969 and 1970 which resulted in the 
dislocation of social relationships and the loss of millions of lives 
and property running into several millions of naira, the Nigerian 
nation found the need to deliberately put certain mechanisms in 
place in order to mitigate the negative effects of this unfortunate 
war on the country. The NYSC scheme is said to have been one of 
such mechanisms put in place as part of the “3R” program- 
reconstruction, rehabilitation and reconciliation- put together 
by the then Federal Military Government under General Yakubu 
Gowon at the end of the civil war. The aim was to build bridges 
across the ethnic and religious divisions which became widened 
as a result of the war, and to foster the spirit of Nigerian 1 
nationalism. But as students of history, we know full well that 
the Nigerian civil war was itself a product of history and that 
history goes back to the colonial period or even beyond. 
However, in order not to drag us into a plethora of historical 
details, it will suffice to resort to the brief but fairly holistic and 
thus comprehensive historical background that the NYSC 
handbook seems to provide us with. It is not only a primary 
source as far as the NYSC programme is concerned, it also goes 
beyond the unfortunate civil war in looking at the genesis of the 
scheme when it states that,
Nigeria is a country whose colonial history and 
experience in the immediate post-independence era 
were characterized by ethnic loyalties, mutual group 
suspicion and distrust, that culminated in the 
traumatic events of a bloody civil war. As a 
developing country, Nigeria is further plagued by 
the problems attendant upon a condition of 
underdevelopment, namely; poverty, mass 
1.
See the objectives of the National Youth Service Corps Scheme which are clearly spelt th 
out in Decree No. 51 of 16 June 1993 as stated in the NYSC Act Cap N84 Laws of the 
Federation of Nigeria 2004 and the NYSC Handbook revised in 1999, pp.6-10
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020598
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

illiteracy, acute shortage of high skilled manpower 
(coupled with most uneven distribution of the skilled 
people that are available), woefully inadequate 
socio- economic infrastructural facilities, i.e. 
housing, water and sewage facilities, road, health-2
care services, and effective communication system.
The picture of Nigeria that we get from the above quotation is 
not only apt but it is also so clear that it does not need further 
elaboration here. But it is important to note something generally 
about the early phase of the relationship between Africa and 
Europe which culminated into colonialism and later the British 
version of this obnoxious foreign system. Chinua Achebe seems 
to have provided us with a brief but a broad view of that 
relationship when he wrote that,
An Igbo proverb tells us that a man who does not know 
where the rain began to beat him cannot say where he 
dried his body. The rain that beat Africa began four or 
five hundred years ago, from the “discovery” of Africa 
by Europe, through the transatlantic slave trade, to the 
Berlin Conference of 1885. That controversial gathering 
of the world's leading European powers precipitated 
what we now call the scramble for Africa, which 
created new boundaries that did violence to Africa's 
ancient societies and resulted in tension-prone modern 
states. It took place without African consultation or 3
representation, to say the least.
As one of the “tension-prone modern states”, Nigeria is bound to 
exhibit all the characteristics that have been named in the above 
quotation from the NYSC Hand Book, and even more for 
obvious reasons. Looking at the British conquest of what later 
became Nigeria, it is clear to see that the country was a 
2.
National Youth Service Corps: NYSC Hand Book, Revised in 1999, p.63.
Achebe, C. (2012) THERE WAS A COUNTRY: A Personal History of Biafra, Penguin Books 
Ltd., London
NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS AND THE LABOUR MARKET 599
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

conglomerate of different groups of people who lived in 
independent and semi- independent kingdoms and states with 
different historical and socio-economic backgrounds, but who 
were later put together by the British colonial authorities 
through the process of amalgamation for the purpose of 
economic exploitation. It is also clear that the process of 
amalgamation which lasted up to 1914 was neither done in 
consultation with the various polities that were being woven 
together nor was time and efforts expended to allow for 
necessary adjustments on the part of the people in order to blend 
with each other. Rather, the process appears to have been 
imposed ruthlessly as in most cases it involved open warfare 
between the people and the colonizers. And throughout the 
period of colonial rule, nothing was done to deliberately forge 
unity among the various groups and sections of the country; 
instead, the British colonial policies which were based on the 
principle of divide-and-rule only succeeded in polarizing the 
people and the various sections the more. This is the kind of 
colonial history that Nigeria experienced and reference is hereby 
being made to it in order to highlight the background to the 
establishment of the NYSC programme.
Talking about the experience of the country 'in the 
immediate post-independence era', available evidence speaks 
for themselves. At independence, what was handed over by the 
British was an entity that was regionalised along ethnic loyalties 
with 'mutual group suspicion and distrust' as stated in the above 
quotation from the NYSC handbook. And the socio-economic 
condition that prevailed during and after colonialism was that of 
dependency and underdevelopment which was characterised 
by all the negative and disadvantageous variables that have 
been named in that quotation. This unfortunate situation was 
worsened by the almost three years of unfortunate civil war that 
was fought, which left us with monumental consequences in 
terms of the loss of lives and property as well as the 
accompanying socio-economic dislocations.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020600
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

This was the prevailing circumstance under which the 
National Youth Service Corps programme was established in 
1973 with Ahmadu Ali serving as the first Director-General of 
the NYSC until 1975. He was succeeded by several senior 
military officers with the incumbent Director-General being 
Brigadier-General Shuaibu Ibrahim. Having looked briefly at 
the background of the NYSC programme, we shall now proceed 
to look at some of the objectives of the scheme.
Objectives of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) 
Scheme Based on the above brief background information on 
the NYSC programme, it is fairly clear to begin to visualise some 
of the objectives that the scheme was established to accomplish. 
These objectives and the mode of operation of the NYSC scheme 
towards the achievements of its mandate are clearly spelt out in 
th 
Decree No. 51 of 16 June 1993 as follows:
• To inculcate discipline in Nigerian youths by instilling in 
them a tradition of industry at work, and of patriotic and 
loyal service to Nigeria in any situation they may find 
themselves
• To raise the moral tone of Nigerian youths by giving them 
the opportunity to learn about higher ideals of national 
achievement, social and cultural improvement
• To develop in Nigerian youths the attitudes of mind, 
acquired through shared experience and suitable training, 
which will make them more amenable to mobilisation in the 
national interest
• To enable Nigerian youths acquire the spirit of self-reliance 
by encouraging them to develop skills for self-employment
• To contribute to the accelerated growth of the national 
economy
• To develop common ties among the Nigerian youths and 
promote national unity and integration
• To remove prejudices, eliminate ignorance and confirm at 
first hand the many similarities among Nigerians of all 
NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS AND THE LABOUR MARKET 601
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

ethnic groups
• To develop a sense of corporate existence and common 
destiny of the people of Nigeria
• The equitable distribution of members of the service corps 
and the effective utilisation of their skills in areas of national 
needs
• That as far as possible youths are assigned to jobs in states 
other than their states of origin
• That such group of youths assigned to work together is as 
representative of Nigeria as far as possible
• That the Nigerian youths are exposed to the modes of living 
of the people in different parts of Nigeria
• That the youths are encouraged to eschew religious 
intolerance by accommodating religious differences
• That members of the service corps are encouraged to seek at 
the end of their one-year national service, career 
employment all over Nigeria, thus promoting the free 
movement of labour
• That employers are induced partly through their experience 
with members of the service corps to employ more readily 
and on a permanent basis, qualified Nigerians, irrespective 
of their states of origin. Unfortunately, most employers 
discard these young graduates, waiting for the next 
4
orientation programme to get fresh set of graduates.
nd 
Although the Scheme was established by Decree 24 of 22 May 
th 
1973, twenty years later, it was repealed by Decree 51 of 16 June, 
1993, which is now quoted as NYSC Act CAP N84 Laws of the 
5 
Federation of Nigeria. Three cardinal points that are clearly 
stated in this Act regarding the establishment and objectives of 
the National Youth Service Corps are worthy of note here. 
Section 1 sub-section 2 of the Act states that: 
The service corps shall see to:
4.
See NYSC ACT Cap N84 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004 pp.1-3 and NYSC 
HAND BOOK, revised in 1999, pp.8-9
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020602
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

(a) the proper encouragement and development of common 
ties among the Nigeria youth,
(b) the promotion of national unity; and
(c) development of Nigerian youths and Nigeria into a great 
6
and dynamic economy.
A recent editorial in the NYSC NEWS also seems to provide 
us with a good background objective of the NYSC Scheme when 
it states that,
Prior to the establishment of the Scheme, the Nation 
was bedevilled by ethnic mistrusts which resulted in a 
thirty- month civil war that left in its wake millions of 
casualties… It was at the end of hostilities that the then 
leadership of the country came to the realisation that it 
will take more than the force of the arms to weld the 
entire country into one indivisible whole. Accordingly, 
searchlight was beamed on Nigerian youths to begin 
the process of building a country rising from the ashes 
of the war into an egalitarian and cohesive one, devoid 
7
of hate and stereotypes that divide us.
The editorial goes further to assert that, “…the establishment of 
the Service Corps was indeed a major post-colonial conscious 
effort to fashion out a nation out of several ethnic nationalities 
8 
that formed Nigeria in 1914.” It is on this premise that one can 
say that the primary purpose of the NYSC is to inculcate in the 
Nigerian youths the spirit of selfless service to the community, 
and to emphasise the spirit of oneness and brotherhood of all 
Nigerians, irrespective of cultural or social backgrounds. In 
other words, the scheme was initiated to foster unity among 
5 .
See the Editorial of NYSC NEWS, A Journal of NYSC Directorate Headquarters, 
APMAJU522020, see also NYSC Handbook, op.cit., p.76.
NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS ACT: CAP N84 LAWS OF THE 
FEDERATION OF NIGERIA 2004, NYSC ACT 17.
NYSC NEWS,Ibid.8.
Ibid.
NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS AND THE LABOUR MARKET 603
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Nigerians and to promote service to the nation. It is against this 
backdrop that one can conclude that the conception and 
founding of the NYSC scheme was purely for the purpose of 
achieving unity for a nation that was divided along ethnic and 
geo-political lines, and also one that was further fractured by an 
9 
unfortunate civil war and the strong desire to rebuild it. A list of 
eight-point objectives of the NYSC scheme are clearly stated on 
pages 8-9 of the NYSC handbook which we have already made 
reference to in this paper. An abridged version of those 
objectives has been stated thus:
To achieve the purpose of building a united nation, 
encouragement and development of common ties 
among Nigerian youths; promotion of national unity; 
and development of Nigerian youths and Nigeria into a 
great and dynamic economy became the mandate of the 
Service Corps which today is the biggest youth- 
10
mobilisation agency in Africa.
Be that as it may, the establishment of the NYSC scheme and its 
long period of existence does not seem to have been an Uhuru yet 
as far as the problems and issues that brought it into being are 
concerned. Rather, to borrow from the late playwright and 
patriot, Chinua Achebe, the effort towards achieving unity in 
Nigeria and indeed nation building seems to be 'morning yet on 
our creation day' for some obvious reasons which we shall later 
interrogate in this paper. We shall now proceed to look at the 
mode of operation of the NYSC scheme since it is from here that 
we will be able to know whether or not the scheme was properly 
positioned to achieve those objectives for which it was 
established. 
9.
NYSC was created on 22 May, 1973 based on decree No. 24 which has now been repealed th 
and replaced by Decree 51 of 16 June 1993 and later revised in 1999, which stated that the 
scheme was created “with a view to ensure the proper encouragement and development 
of common ties among the youths of Nigeria and the promotion of national unity”, as 
already stated above.10.
NYSC NEWS, op.cit.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020604
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brief operational guideline of the National Youth Service 
Corps (NYSC) Scheme
How the Federal Government intended to achieve unity and 
nation building in Nigeria through the instrumentality of the 
NYSC programme is embedded in the operational guideline of 
the scheme. However, for the purpose of this study, we shall 
only give a summary of the guideline here. Corps members (i.e. 
participants in the National Youth Service Scheme) are normally 
posted to states other than their states of origin where they are 
expected to mix with people from different ethnic groups, social 
and family backgrounds, and learn the culture of the indigenes 
in the locations they are posted to. This action is aimed at 
exposing the youths to the socio-cultural diversity of the nation 
and, thus, bring about unity in the country by helping the youths 
to appreciate other ethnic and religious groups. There is an 
“orientation” period of approximately three weeks which is 
spent in a military controlled camp as soon as corps members are 
called up for the national service away from family and friends. 
The camps are situated across the 36 states of the federation 
including Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory. In these camps, 
corps members are taught some entrepreneurial skills. There is 
also a “passing out ceremony” at the end of the three weeks' 
orientation camp after which corps members are posted to their 
Place of Primary Assignment (PPA). They are expected to work 
as full-time staff at their PPA with exception of one working day 
devoted for community development service.
After eleven months at their PPA, corps members are 
allowed one month of vacation before their final passing out 
ceremony where they would be issued certificates of 
11 
completion. Thereafter, the Corps members are released into 
the labour market thus, becoming a source of labour supply as 
employees to the national and indeed international labour 
markets. Initially, especially in the 1970s and early 1980s, a good 
11.
https://en.m.wikipedia.org>    wiki    22/07/20
NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS AND THE LABOUR MARKET 605
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

number of corps members got absorbed in their places of 
primary assignment as staff on full employment, but with time 
and as we speak today, only a negligible few get such an 
opportunity in the country, hence the rapid rise in the number of 
unemployed graduates and the phenomenon of human capital 
flight or what is commonly referred to as brain-drain among this 
category of youths who pass through the NYSC scheme.
It would appear that the essence of the orientation that corps 
members undergo during the service year is to prepare them for 
the tasks ahead of them by introducing them to their new 
environment, its potential and the challenges they are likely to 
face. Apart from that, corps members are also equipped with 
some additional skills while in camp, apart from the ones they 
have acquired from the various institutions of higher learning 
they are coming from. These new skills are usually referred to as 
entrepreneurial skills. The essence of the acquisition of these 
skills is both for immediate and life-time usage by corps 
members as will be seen later in the paper. However, let us start 
with the main thrust of the paper as suggested in the title, 
namely, the relationship between the NYSC scheme and the 
labour market.
The Labour Market and its Dynamics
Having examined what the NYSC stands for, it is important to 
know what constitutes the labour market before going further to 
interrogate the relationship that has been existing between it and 
the NYSC scheme in Nigeria. By simple definition, the labour 
market is also known as the job market. It refers essentially to the 
supply of and demand for labour, in which employees provide 
the supply and the employers provide the demand. Labour is a 
commodity that is supplied by labourers in exchange for a wage 
paid by demanding firms. Labour can be classified into two 
main categories, namely, unskilled and skilled labour. As the job 
market continues to change and evolve, it is important to 
understand the demand for unskilled, semi-skilled, and skilled 
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020606
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

labour. Specialised skills are becoming more and more sought 
after in our increasingly technical world, while the demand for 
unskilled labour continues to go down. A brief definition of 
these categories of labour may throw more light on the argument 
being advanced in this paper. Unskilled labour refers to workers 
who possess no particular skills and are likely to have no formal 
education. This type of work usually involves simple duties that 
do not require judgement. In some cases, unskilled labour 
requires physical strength and exertion. While unskilled labour 
jobs are dwindling due to technological advancements leaving 
fewer and fewer jobs for these types of workers in the developed 
economies, the opposite is the case in the underdeveloped 
countries (Nigeria inclusive) where there is less technological 
advancement.
Semi-Skilled labour does not require advanced training or 
specialised skills. It does, however, require more skills than an 
unskilled labour job. People who perform semi-skilled labour 
usually have more than a high school certificate but less than a 
college degree or its equivalent. The types of skills necessary for 
this are not complex, but usually include the ability to monitor 
and perform repetitive tasks. Skilled labour refers to workers 
who have specialised training or skills. These labourers are 
capable of exercising judgement and have knowledge of the 
particular trade or industry where they work. People who 
12 
perform skilled labour will most likely have a college degree.
Unskilled and semi-skilled jobs are, however, dwindling 
because the world is drastically different now than it was 50 
years ago, and menial jobs are no longer in surplus. Technology 
is changing the way things are being done, and we need the skill-
set to keep up! When we invest in training and education 
therefore, we try to market our skills and thus guarantee that the 
world will open up to us. But this is only true for the developed  
countries where technology has been fully incorporated into the 
12.
https//esub.com,     15/10/20
NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS AND THE LABOUR MARKET 607
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

production process. In most of the so-called developing 
countries (Nigeria inclusive) where technology is still at a low 
ebb in the production process, menial jobs seem to be 
preponderant. This scenario seems to negatively impact on the 
tertiary/service sector, which has a greater variety of jobs that 
require different skills, and may partly be responsible for the 
present increase in the number of unemployed graduates in the 
country. We shall return to this issue later in the paper. 
When we talk of labour, we are referring to the number of 
workers in the economy, and the effort they put into producing 
goods and services. Labour force participation is therefore an 
important component of economic growth: as more people 
participate in the labour force, firms are able to expand 
employment and increase production. Greater labour force 
participation is associated with higher tax revenues because the 
number of employed people and, therefore, the number of 
people paying income and payroll taxes tend to rise. It becomes 
imperative for both the public and private sectors in Nigeria to 
ensure the full participation of several thousands of corps 
members that pass out every year into the labour market. In the 
labour market, it is assumed that workers move to where there is 
13 
demand for their labour. It follows therefore that labour 
markets or job markets function through the interaction of 
workers and employers. In this paper therefore we are looking at 
the corps members as the employees and government and 
private businesses or corporate organisations as employers. 
Experts have advised that the labour market should be viewed at 
both the macroeconomic and microeconomic levels since it is a 
major component of any economy, and it is intricately linked to 
markets for capital, goods, and services. While unemployment 
rates and labour productivity rates are two important 
macroeconomic gauges, individual wages and number of hours 
14 
worked are two important microeconomic gauges.
13.
See corporatefinanceinstitute.com > labour14.
www.investopedia.com , August 31, 2020
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020608
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

For the purpose of this paper however, we shall be focusing 
more on the macroeconomics because it is the study of 
aggregates or averages covering the entire economy, such as 
total employment, national income, national output, total 
investment, total consumption, aggregate supply, aggregate 15
demand, etc. , hence it is more relevant to the present effort. For 
instance, at the macroeconomic level, supply and demand are 
influenced by domestic and international market dynamics, as 
well as factors such as immigration, the age of the population, 
and education levels. Here, also, relevant measures include 
unemployment, productivity, participation rates, total income, 
and gross domestic product (GDP). This is why the study of 
macroeconomic variables is indispensable for understanding 
the working of the economy. Jhingan seems to have gone further 
to justify this position by noting that:
Macroeconomics is extremely useful from the point of 
view of economic policy. Modern governments, 
especially of the underdeveloped economies, are 
confronted with innumerable national problems. They 
are the problems of overpopulation, inflation, balance 
of payment, general underproduction, etc. The main 
responsibility of these governments rests in the 
regulation and control of overpopulation, general 16
prices, general volume of trade, general outputs, etc.
The above quotation has thrown some light on why more 
emphasis has been given to macroeconomic concepts than 
microeconomic ones in this paper. For one, whether we are 
considering the NYSC or the labour market we are dealing with 
aggregates with usually widespread consequences for the entire 
country and its economy. Secondly, Nigeria is one of the 
underdeveloped economies that is confronted with virtually all 
the problems that are enumerated in the above quotation. Some 
15.
M.L. Jhingan (2008) Macro-Economic Theory (Delhi: Vrinda Publications (P) Ltd., th 
11 Revised Edition, p.116.
Ibid., p.3
NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS AND THE LABOUR MARKET 609
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

of these problems have given rise to the present high level of 
graduate unemployment and youth restiveness in the society. 
We shall return to this point at a more appropriate time as the 
paper progresses. Finally, what we must not fail to point out here 
is something that affects supply and demand in the labour 
market. This has to do with the threat of automation as computer 
programs gain the ability to do more- complex tasks; the effects 
of globalisation as enhanced communication and better 
transport links allow work to be moved across borders.
Relationship between the NYSC Scheme and the Labour 
Market 
In looking at the relationship between the National Youth 
Service Corps scheme and the labour market, two issues engage 
the attention of the researcher, namely, the age of the population 
and education levels, which, at the macroeconomic level, are 
among the factors influencing supply and demand in the labour 
market. We have earlier mentioned other factors, though only in 
passing, in this paper. As a scheme that brings together young 
graduates from higher institutions of learning whose age 
bracket is between 18 and 30 years, the NYSC scheme can be said 
to be a supplier of young and highly educated middle cadre 
manpower to the labour market. In other words, the scheme can 
be said to supply more of skilled and less of semi-skilled labour. 
The relationship between the NYSC and the labour market can 
therefore be better understood in terms of human capital 
formation or development. But, first, we need to know what is 
meant by human capital. Human capital is the stock of habits, 
knowledge, skills, education, the right experience, social and 
personality attributes embodied in the ability to perform labour 17 
so as to produce economic value. Human capital is unique in 
the sense that it differs from the physical capital. A comparative 
study of these two forms of capital has revealed that,
17.
See M.L. Jhingan (2016) The Economics of Development and Planning, Vrinda Publications 
(P) Ltd., Delhi, pp.424-5
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020610
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The growth of Western European countries and the 
USA has been based more on investment in physical 
capital than in human capital in their earlier phases of 
development. But in the case of the underdeveloped 
countries the need for human capital in the form of 
educated persons in different vocations is greater to 
provide the missing components in the initial stages of 18
their development.
Human capital is therefore an intangible asset that can be 
classified as the economic value of a worker's experience and 
skills. In its wider sense, human capital includes assets like 
education, training, intelligence, skills, health, and social 
services in general which employers value such as loyalty and 19 
punctuality. In its narrower sense however, it implies 
education and training which has become more conventional to 
talk about because expenditure on education and training is 
more capable of measurement than expenditure on social 20 
services. But all of them are called human capital because 
people cannot be separated from their knowledge, skills, health, 
or values in the way they can be separated from their financial 
and physical assets. Education, training, and health are therefore 
the most important investments in human capital. According to 
Jhingan,
Economists are, therefore, of the view that it is the lack of 
investment in human capital that has been responsible for the 
slow growth of the LDCs. Unless such economies spread 
education, knowledge, and know-how, and raise the level of 
skills and physical efficiency of the people, the productivity of 21
physical capital is reduced.
It is for the above reason that governments and corporate 
organisations who want to accelerate their growth rate usually 
18.
Ibid.,   pp.426-719. 20.
https://en.m.wikipedia.org. Accessed   21/09/20 Jhingan, The economics of 
Development…, op.cit., p.425 
NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS AND THE LABOUR MARKET 611
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

invest in human capital through education and training. When 
economists speak of “education”, the focus is not strictly on 
workers obtaining college degrees. Education is often broken 
into specific levels, namely; primary – junior secondary school; 
senior secondary – middle school, high school, and preparatory 
school; and post-secondary – university, community college, 
vocational schools.
We have earlier alluded to the fact that a country's economy 
becomes more productive as the proportion of educated 
workers increases, since educated workers will then be more 
equipped to efficiently carry out tasks. We hasten to add that this 
is more so when such tasks require literacy and critical thinking. 
However, obtaining a higher level of education also carries a 
cost. A country does not have to provide an extensive network of 
colleges and or universities, as is the case in contemporary 
Nigeria, to benefit from education; it can provide basic literacy 
programs and still see economic improvements. It is however 
unfortunate that despite the extensive network of colleges and 
universities in the country, there seems not to be proportionate 
economic improvements. This situation is compounded by both 
the undue emphasis on certificates rather than knowledge and 
the relegation of technical and vocational qualifications in 
preference to university degrees. Worse still, today, the 
country's general literacy level is anything but low. As we all 
know, the best the conventional universities can offer is in the 
realm of theories and this realm needs to combine sufficiently 
with the practical aspects of knowledge to be able to translate 
into economic improvements. It is this gap that the Skills 
Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) 
program of the NYSC attempts to fill as will be seen later in the 
chapter.
Though the NYSC is often presented as a child of 
circumstance because of the Nigerian civil war that preceded it, 
it is however clear that economic growth and the general 
development of the nation formed part of the considerations that 
went into its formation. As already noted in this paper, part of 
the mandate of the NYSC is 'the development of Nigerian youths 
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020612
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

and Nigeria into a great and dynamic economy'. This is purely 
an economic consideration and experts seem to reason that 
education and training can lead to improved levels of quality 22 
and production. It is therefore not by accident that the first 
criterion for one to be called up to serve under the NYSC scheme 
is evidence of higher educational qualifications. This is mainly 
because it has become clear to policy makers and top business 
managers that knowledge and skills of workers available in the 
labour supply is a key determinant for both business and 
economic growth. The productivity of an economy is also said to 
rise as the number of educated workers increases since skilled 
workers can perform tasks more efficiently. Moreover, in this era 
of information and communication technology (ICT), economies 
and virtually everything in life is rapidly becoming knowledge-
driven. Understanding how education and training interact 
with the economy therefore can help to explain why some 
workers, businesses, and economies flourish, while others falter. 
A study on how demographic factors relate to participation in 
the labour force by the American Congressional Budget Office 
(CBO) in the US shows, among other things, that people with 
more education are more likely to participate in the labour force 
than people with less education. The study goes on to show that:
In 2017, the participation rate of men ages 25 to 54 with 
at least college degree was 9 percentage points higher 
than the rate for men without a college degree. For 
women, the difference was 13 percentage points. For 
both sexes, since about 2000, the difference in labour 
force participation between people with more 
education and people with less education has grown. 
Between 1990 and 2017, the share of men with at least a 
college degree increased from 27 percent to 33 percent 
and share of women with at least a college degree 
climbed from 23 percent to 38 percent. In CBO's 
estimation, those shares will continue to increase, 
22.
See Kenton, Will, “Human Capital”. Investopedia. Retrieved 2019-03-28.
NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS AND THE LABOUR MARKET 613
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

boosting labour force participation higher than it would 
23 
be if educational attainment did not rise over time.
Though lack of adequate database seems to limit the extent to 
which we can carry out a similar study like the above in Nigeria; 
the result of such a study as presented here may not be far from 
what we are likely to get in this country since America has 
always been our role model in virtually all aspects of our 
national life. Since the NYSC scheme, as earlier noted, provides 
an avenue for both the assembling of graduates from different 
institutions of higher learning across the country and their 
training in different skills for the purpose of national 
development, it clearly demonstrates the importance its 
founding fathers attach to education as one of the factors 
affecting the participation of people in the labour force. As noted 
in the CBO report on the rate of labour force participation for 
people between ages 25 to 54, those ages are typically done with 
schooling but not yet near retirement age, and as a group they 
have the highest participation rate in the labour force.
We have already noted that apart from the requisite 
educational qualifications that prospective participants in the 
NYSC programme are expected to come with from their various 
institutions, they are also subjected to some form of training in 
the orientation camps before they pass out to serve. This training 
is usually conducted under the aegis of the Skills Acquisition 
and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) program. This 
brings us to the issue of the specialised skills that the NYSC 
scheme supplies to the labour market. But before we go into this 
there is a concern that should continue to agitate the minds of the 
reader. The concern is that in trying to draw a relationship 
between the NYSC and the Nigerian labour market, what 
immediately comes to mind is the challenge of the geometrical 
increase in youth unemployment in contemporary Nigeria. This 
challenge brings to the fore the question of the impact of the 
23.
https//www.cbo.gov,     20/10/20
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020614
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC on nation building. And it is because this challenge seems 
to be persistent that some stakeholders have recently started to 
question the rationale behind the continuous existence of the 
NYSC scheme. As we write, there is a whole lot of debate in 
public domain in country on whether or not the NYSC scheme be 
scrapped. Perhaps, by the time we go through the specialised 
skills that the scheme is expected to supply to the labour market, 
the picture may be clearer.
Some of the Specialised Skills that the NYSC Scheme 
Supplies 
From the various institutions of higher learning where the 
participants of the NYSC scheme are usually drawn, the 
graduates acquired different specialised skills as natural and 
social scientists- in-the-making: as public administrators, 
teachers, lawyers, psychologists, laboratory scientists, nurses, 
medical doctors, civil, electrical and mechanical engineers, 
pharmacists, etc. etc. At the various NYSC orientation camps, 
corps members are usually made to acquire some 
entrepreneurial skills during the three weeks spent in the 
various orientation camps as already noted in the paper. After 
graduating from the orientation camps, corps members are 
assumed to have been well-equipped to face some of the 
challenges they are expected to face not only during the service 
year but throughout life. Some of these challenges include the 
need to put both the knowledge they have acquired from their 
various institutions of higher learning and the specialised skills 
they have gotten in camp to use in their daily life as they strive 
towards achieving their tasks in life. But the question that 
quickly comes to mind is what are these skills in-camp and how 
are they acquired by the corps members?
The National Youth Service Corps runs a program that is 
aimed at the acquisition of various skills by corps members 
during the orientation period as earlier noted, which is known as 
the NYSC Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship 
Development (SEAD) program. It is a response to the youth 
unemployment challenge with a mission to create a platform 
NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS AND THE LABOUR MARKET 615
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

that will facilitate access of young graduates to requisite skills 
and resources necessary for successful entrepreneurship as a 24 
means of enhancing national development. The circumstance 
that informed the setting up of SAED by the NYSC is succinctly 
captured in the Executive summary of the program thus,
Youth unemployment is a major challenge in the 
country, bringing along with it several serious socio-
cultural and economic challenges. There have been 
several developmental initiatives across various 
sectors and tiers of government to address the 
issues… The NYSC, by virtue of her mandate, is 
unarguably the most critical influencer in the 
development of the Nigerian youth… Consequently, 
the scheme has been grappling with strategies to deal 
with these challenges with a long shot at skill 
acquisition, economic empowerment activities and 
entrepreneurship development for self-employment 
initiatives. This is drawing on the experience that the 
Nigerian educational system places little or no 
emphasis on skill acquisition. This gap, the NYSC is 
poised to close, which led to the creation of the Skill 
Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development 25
(SAED) program.
There is no doubt that SAED is part of the mandate of the NYSC 
scheme. It is clearly stated in the SAED program that,
The NYSC was established to, among others, 
promote self-reliance in the Nigerian youth through 
entrepreneurial development and skill acquisition… 
It is in recognition of these realities that the NYSC set 
up a Skill Acquisition & Entrepreneurship 
Development (SAED) programme as a pragmatic 
response to the youth unemployment challenge with 
24.
See Strategic Framework for the Skill Acquisition & Entrepreneurship Development (SEAD) 
Program of the National Youth Service Corps, a publication of the NYSC Directorate, p.1225.
Ibid., p.06
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020616
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

a mission to create a platform that will facilitate 
access of young graduates to requisite skills and 
resources necessary for successful entrepreneurship 26
as a means of enhancing national development.
From the above quotations, it is clear that SAED was born out of 
both the economic realities of contemporary Nigeria and the 
imbalance in the country's educational system. And by 
emphasising skills acquisition and entrepreneurship, the NYSC, 
through SAED, can be said to have taken the right step in the 
right direction ab initio. What we expect to see is the right result. 
However, in specific terms, the focus of the SAED programme is 
to, among other things, 
contribute meaningfully to the attainment of the 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDG-4: Ensure 
inclusive and equitable quality education and promote 
lifelong learning opportunities for all & SDG-8: 
Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic 
growth, full and productive employment and descent 
work for all) as well as the Federal Government's 
commitment to economic transformation through 
promotion of entrepreneurship and self-reliance 27
particularly amongst the youth.
How the NYSC intends to achieve the above laudable ideals, 
using SAED, is also enunciated in the Executive summary where 
it is stated that:
The SAED program has an ambitious vision to enable 
the creation of at least 20,000 sustainable enterprises 
annually, and get a minimum of 150, 000 corps 
members to be productively engaged, generating 
sustainable economic value through employment or 28 
entrepreneurship annually.
26.
Ibid., p.1227.
Ibid.28.
Ibid.,   pp.07-08
NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS AND THE LABOUR MARKET 617
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

In the bid to achieve the above vision, twelve 'high growth 
sectors' are said to have been initially selected within which the 
SAED programme would achieve its mandate. These sectors are: 
agro- allied, food processing and preservation, culture and 
tourism, cosmetology, information and communications 
technology, construction, environment, horticulture and 
landscaping, power and energy, education, film and 29 
photography, and automobile. These are therefore the areas of 
specialised skills that the NYSC scheme can be said to be 
supplying to the country's economy. These skills can be said to 
constitute the various aspects of input of manpower that can be 
applied to various aspects of the Nigerian economy, though 
areas such as healthcare, manufacturing and mining, among 
others, seem to be conspicuously out of the selection by the 
scheme for now. This, however, does not foreclose their 30
inclusion in the future.
The SAED programme is resting on three well defined 
pillars,namely, entrepreneurship and business management, 31 
skill acquisition, and preparation for employment. But the 
question to ask is how thorough or deep is the training that the 
corps members are made to undergo under SAED during the 
service year? Considering the fact that the training usually lasts 
for just three weeks during the period of orientation of corps 32 
members (in-camp) and at most the service year (out-camp), it 
may not be deep or thorough enough to make its impact felt, 
though this may also depend on how intensive the training had 
been during this period. If one's experience is anything to go by, 
in the late 1980s when this writer was a corps member, the SAED 
programme, though not as well developed then as it is presently, 
was taken casually by both corps members and their staff. The 
reason for this nonchalance may not be unconnected to the fact 
that graduate unemployment level then was nowhere near what 
29.
Ibid., p.0830.
On page 18, of the SAED Book, under Sector Focus Areas, it says: This 
selection…should not be viewed as final.31.
Ibid.,   pp.13-1432.
The General Policy Guideline for NYSC Orientation Courses specifies three weeks' 
duration for any orientation. See alsoIbid., p.12
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020618
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

it is today and so both the government and the citizenry never 
gave the programme the attention it deserved. It may also be that 
because the SAED programme was not what it is today in terms 
of organisation and funding, people tended to give it only little 
or no attention. But even today, can we say that government and 
the citizenry have given this programme the required attention? 
How many corps members who passed through this 
programme are entrepreneurs today? Going by the vision of the 
programme which we quoted above, it is expected to create 'at 
least 20, 000 sustainable enterprises annually'. But when we 
compare this figure to the over 2,000 corps members that 
established their businesses over the period of about four years 33
as reported by a past D-G of the NYSC, Brig. Gen. S. Z. Kazaure , 
it becomes clear that the vision may not only be ambitious as 
already alluded to in the vision statement quoted above, but may 
also be facing some challenges. Some of the challenges which the 
former D-G listed included lack of skill centres particularly in 
the rural areas for post camp training, training equipment, 
development of a friendly and less rigorous condition for 
assessing micro-credit required to start businesses by corps 
members, training and re-training of NYSC staff for efficient 
management of the programme for sustainability, and support 
for regular monitoring, supervision and evaluation of corps 34 
entrepreneurs' activities. But the good news today is that some 
of these inadequacies are already being taken care. The current 
D- G of the NYSC, Brigadier-General S. Ibrahim opines that, 
We have SAED Mega Centers in Gombe for the North- 
East geo-political zone. We also have one in Kazaure, 
Jigawa State for the North-West zone which is almost at 
95% level of completion… We are about to start the 
construction of a SAED mega-Centre for the North- 
Central in Keffi. The scheme also has a SAED centre in 
33.
The SAED Book, op.cit., p.0134.
Ibid.
NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS AND THE LABOUR MARKET 619
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Ekiti State for the South-West and we intend to expand 35
the scope.
As the first pillar of the NYSC SAED programme, 
entrepreneurship is also said to be the key to contemporary 
global economic development. Jhingan, for example, has 
observed that, whatever be the form of economic and political 
set-up of the country, entrepreneurship is essential for economic 
development. In a socialist state, the state is the entrepreneur. So 
is the case in underdeveloped countries where private 
entrepreneurship is shy in undertaking the risks associated with 
new ventures. But in advanced capitalist societies, private 
entrepreneurs have played the crucial role in economic 36
development.
If entrepreneurship has become the focus in global economic 
development strive, the NYSC in particular, and Nigeria in 
general, must do everything possible to remove all the bottle-
necks that impede progress in this area of human endeavour. In 
his analysis of the factors that impede the development of 
entrepreneurship in underdeveloped countries, Jhingan opined 
that,
Entrepreneurship is inhibited by the social system which 
denies opportunities for creative faculties. The force of 
custom, the rigidity of status and the distrust of new 
ideas and of the exercise of intellectual curiosity, 
combine to create an atmosphere inimical to 
experiment and innovation. In LDCs, traditional 
attitudes discourage full utilisation of the human 
resources. People are ranked not according to their 
capacity to do particular jobs but by sex, caste, clan and 
kinship. Individualistic spirit is absent. People prefer 
traditional trades and professions rather than venture 37 
in new trades.
35.
NYSC NEWS: A Journal of NYSC Directorate Headquarters, APMAJU522020, p.70
36.
Jhingan, The Economics of Development… op.cit., p.439
37.
Ibid.,   pp.440-1
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020620
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

th 
In his address during the 46 anniversary of the NYSC, which we 
have quoted below, the current Director-General of the scheme 
named some of the challenges of the NYSC to include 'other 
dynamics of the operating environment.” Needless to state here 
that this phrase expresses exactly the same thing with what is 
referred to as the 'social system' in the above quotation. And that 
all the characteristics of this system as expressed above are what 
have been playing out in contemporary Nigeria means they 
constitute part of what is generally but negatively known as the 
“Nigerian factor”, which is nothing but simply the failure of 38 
leadership in the political history of the country. As a matter of 
fact, these characteristics impede not only the achievement of the 
SAED programme of the NYSC or the entire scheme only, but 
also all other things that make for the socio-economic 
development of the country. This is why Acemoglu and 
Robinson have rightly observed that “Countries differ in their 
economic success because of their different institutions, the rules 
influencing how the economy works, and the incentives that 39 
motivate the people.” They go further to conclude that, Political 
and economic institutions, which are ultimately the choice of 
society, can be inclusive and encourage economic growth. Or 
they can be extractive and become impediments to economic 
growth. Nations fail when they have extractive economic 
institutions, supported by extractive political institutions that 
impede and even block economic growth. But this means that 
the choice of institutions – that is, the politics of institutions – is 
central to our quest for understanding the reasons for the success 40
and failure of nations.
Nigeria and indeed majority of countries in the world 
operate extractive political and economic institutions, which 
explains why they fail. They are extractive institutions because 
they are designed to extract incomes and wealth from one subset 
38.
See Chinua Achebe (1984) The Trouble with Nigeria, Heinemann Educational Books, 
Essex, UK.39.
Daron Acemoglu and James A. Robinson (2012) Why Nations Fail: The Origins of 
Power, Prosperity, and Poverty, Crown Publishing Group, New York, p.7340.
Ibid., p.83
NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS AND THE LABOUR MARKET 621
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

of society, especially the great mass of the people, to benefit a 
different subset, who are mostly a few. On the other hand, 
inclusive political and economic institutions allow and 
encourage participation by the great mass of the people in 
economic activities that make best use of their talents and skills 41
and that enable individuals to make the choices they wish.
The Impact of the NYSC on Nation Building
Set against the foregoing background, it is apparent that as a 
pool of human capital, the NYSC usually deploys same to the 
various sectors of the national economy as already noted in this 
paper. We have also noted that human capital affects economic 
growth by helping to develop an economy by expanding the 
knowledge and skills of its people. And that since skills provide 
economic value, it is undoubtedly a knowledgeable workforce 
that can lead to increased productivity. From a broader 
perspective however, the NYSC can be seen as an organisation 
that is expected to be of benefit to the country in three main areas: 
1) to contribute to the accelerated growth of the national 
economy, 2) to develop common ties among the Nigerian youths 
and promote national unity and integration and 3) to remove 
prejudices, eliminate ignorance and confirm at first hand the 
many similarities among Nigerians of all ethnic groups. It is 
based on this trajectory that we shall proceed to examine in 
detail the impact of the scheme on nation building.
From the onset, it is important to note that the environment 
in which the corps members operate matters a lot in assessing 
the impact of the scheme on nation building. The kind of input in 
terms of manpower that the NYSC supplies therefore depends to 
a large extent on the quality of skills participants in the NYSC 
scheme have acquired and the conduciveness of the 
environment within which they operate. We must not lose sight 
of these two variables when looking at the performance of the 
NYSC scheme in the socio-economic development of the 
41.
Ibid.,   pp.73-95
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020622
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

country, or what is usually regarded as nation building. This 
point has been emphasised in the previous section of this 
discourse.
It could be argued that the NYSC programme, from 
inception to date, may be said to have done well in certain areas 
of nation building but not do well in other areas. This is because 
of certain challenges that the scheme is confronted with. Though 
we have briefly touched on some of these challenges in the 
paper, we shall be seeing more of them in this section of the 
paper. But first, it is important to understand what nation 
building is all about. Different scholars tend to look at the issue 
of nation building from different angles based on the biases of 
their various disciplines and the particular nation they are 
focusing on. This is because every nation has its peculiar 
problems that any attempt at nation building must have to 
address. However, for most African countries (Nigeria 
inclusive), colonialism and its legacies seem to have constituted 
most of the obstacles to nation building. Several definitions of 
nation building have become available, but for the purpose of 
this paper we shall be looking at the one offered by A.E. Afigbo, 
who sees nation building as “the search for collective identity 
which is co-extensive with the territorial boundaries of the 
nation-state, a collective identity that can become the basis of 
consensus, solidarity and the shared acceptance of a patterned 42 
normative order.” He goes further to argue that nation building 
consists of five elements namely, (a) the territory; (b) the people; 
(c) the institutions and systems (i.e. family, economy, religion, 
law, socio-political systems, etc.); (d) the technology of the 
society; and (e) the ideas, ideologies and other theoretical 
constructs which give meaning and legitimacy to the other 43
elements of nation building.
The problems of nation building that were to become serious 
obstacles to the Nigerian nation state began with the 
amalgamation of 1914. There existed substantial differences in 
42.
Obaro Ikime (2006) History, the Historian and the Nation: The Voice of a Nigerian 
Historian, Heinemann Educational Books Plc, Ibadan, p.14443.
Ibid
NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS AND THE LABOUR MARKET 623
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

the two protectorates (Northern and Southern Protectorates) 
that were amalgamated in terms of language, religion and 
cultural practices even though in the Northern Protectorate 44
Islam was said to have enjoyed a wide acceptance. The problem 
with the manner in which the amalgamation was made is 
succinctly captured by John Hatch when he observed that,
For the amalgamation to be meaningful in terms of 
nation building the process would have been allowed 
to evolve gradually or in the alternative, since the 
colonial situation did not allow for this, the colonial 
authorities would have opted for “full 
amalgamation” – that is “having the two sets of 
societies interact”. Only governmental services were 
amalgamated. These two sets of societies were 45
deliberately kept apart.
We may not need to reprimand the British colonial authorities 
for the style of amalgamation as represented in the above 
quotation for the simple fact that, “…the British were pursuing 
their “own goals, goals which most certainly did not include the 46 
promotion of Nigerian unity.” As a result, there emerged the 
North-South dichotomy and all other allied dichotomies in 47 
Nigeria's national life. In the educational sector, for instance, 
similar dichotomous policies were made. It has been noted by 
scholars that generally, neither the missionaries nor the colonial 
authorities were interested in producing high level manpower. 
All they wanted was to produce low level religious ministers 
and clerks for the commercial houses and government 
bureaucracy so that even in the south where education was not 
inhibited, the colonial authorities were not enthusiastic over 48
government assistance to voluntary agency schools. In the 
North – especially the Muslim areas, the Christian missionaries 
44.
Ibid., p.29345.
John Hatch (1971) Nigeria: A History, Heinemann Educational Books Ltd., Ibadan, p.15946.
Ikime, op.cit., p.12347.
Ibid., p.122. See also Hatch, op.cit., p.15948.
Ibid. Also see Hatch, ibid.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020624
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

49 
were not tolerated. Commenting on the educational dichotomy 
between the North and the South, Okwudiba Nnoli noted that: 
Western education was tolerated in non-Muslim 
parts of the North hence on the eve of independence 
(1957) whereas the South had 13, 473 and 176 primary 
and secondary schools with 2,343,317 and 28,208 
pupils and students respectively, the North had 2,080 
and 18 primary and secondary schools with 185,484 50
and 3,643 pupils and students respectively.
In view of the foregoing, it could be argued that as far as the 
problems of ethnicity and educational imbalance in our country 
are concerned, the NYSC programme seems to have been 
positioned to tackle them, at least from the point of view of the 
involvement of the educated youths. For apart from exposing 
the corps members to the diversities that are there in the country, 
some of the participants found themselves serving in 
educationally disadvantaged states of the federation where their 
services are usually most needed. In the process of mixing up 
with the groups that are found in their Place of Primary 
Assignment (PPA), some of the corps members take up 
permanent employment while others derive their spouses from 
there. This way, the NYSC scheme can be said to be a bridge 
builder, a role that is very crucial to nation building. During the th 
46 anniversary celebration of the NYSC, the current Director-
General of the scheme, Brig-General S. Ibrahim, had this to say:
In its 46 years of existence, the NYSC has recorded 
tremendous success in the areas of national unity and 
integration, health, education, rural infrastructure, 
free movement of labour, inter-ethnic marriages and 
free legal aid services to indigent persons, among 51 
others.
49.
Ikime, ibid.50.
Okwudiba Nnoli (1980) Ethnic Politics in Nigeria, Fourth Dimension Publishers, Enugu, p.11851.
NYSC NEWS: A Journal of NYSC Directorate Headquarters, OCNODE512019, p.9
NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS AND THE LABOUR MARKET 625
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Many examples of the success story of the NYSC scheme abound 
in virtually all the areas that the Director-General mentioned in 
the above quotation. In the area of free movement of labour and 
inter-ethnic marriages, for instance, a participant in the scheme, 
Mr. Andelheme, was reported to have said that, “The NYSC 
brought me to the North in 1978 and many years later I am still 52 
working in the North and I'm married to a Northerner”. The 
present Governor of Ondo State, Chief Rotimi Akeredolu, is 
among many Nigerians who found love in another ethnic group 
in the course of their participation in the NYSC programme, 
having met his wife while serving in Enugu State. His Royal 
Highness Ovie Omeleh, Omo Ubie Aka II, paramount ruler of 
Yenaka community in Yenagoa, was also quoted as saying that 
he met his wife during the NYSC which brought her to Bayelsa 53 
State. The Journal of the NYSC Directorate Headquarters, in its 
recent editorial, succinctly captures the essence of this attempt at 
national unity and integration when it states that, “…in 47 years 
of the scheme…walls of ethnic suspicions have continued to be 
pulled down; conversely, bridges of lasting relationships – 
cutting across inter-ethnic marriages, friendships, business 54 
relationships have continued to be erected.”
The scheme is equally said to be making invaluable 
contributions to the health sector where the consultants are 
being harvested by foreign countries where they are paid 
heavily. Corps members are standing in the gap. Here, a survey 
in healthcare delivery is likely to reveal that most of the rural 
healthcare clinics in the country are being serviced by NYSC 
medical personnel most of whom are not indigenes of such 55 
communities. The concern of the scheme over the health needs 
of the people, especially the rural populace, has given birth to the 
NYSC Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers (HIRD).The scheme, 
according to reports, runs the biggest advocacy project against 
52.
STANDARD FOCUS - Special Edition, Issn24667530, p.9. Mr. Andelheme was a former 
Deputy Registrar of Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University, Bauchi.53.
Ibid., pp.9-10 and 1154.
NYSC NEWS: A Journal of NYSC Directorate Headquarters, APMAJU522020, p.0355.
STANDARD   FOCUS,Ibid.,   p.10
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020626
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

HIV/AIDS in the globe through a scheme known as Peer 
Education programme which is said to have reached out to, and 
sensitised millions of Nigerians in over fifteen years of its 56 
existence. Following the recent outbreak of the Covid-19 
pandemic, the NYSC Management gave directive to NYSC 
Secretariats nationwide to ensure sufficient support to State 
Governments in the battle against Covid-19. Available report 
shows that “the Scheme has been in the front line of the battle 
against COVID-19, by deploying Corps Medical Team which 
works complementarily with medical teams in the fight against 57 
the Coronavirus pandemic.” The NYSC also embarked on the 
production and distribution of face masks, hand sanitizers, and 
palliatives, as well as other products aimed at mitigating the 
spread of the pandemic with an overwhelming result that 
attracted commendations from many State Governors and 
recently from the Federal Government itself. A news report 
anchored by Yunusa Tanimu captures part of the 
commendation thus:
The Federal Government has commended the National 
Youth Service Corps for contributing to the on-going 
efforts at containing the spread of COVID-19 through 
the production of face masks, antiseptic liquid soap and 
hand sanitizer for public use. The commendation was 
made in Abuja during the public unveiling of the face 58
masks, liquid soap and hand sanitizer…
The same is the case in our education sector where corps 
members have been augmenting the dwindling number of 
teachers nationwide where the profession is seen as not 
lucrative. In fact, in some states, they do not only complement 
but form the bulk of teaching staff in our primary and secondary 
schools. This writer had the opportunity to confirm this position 
when as a lecturer in the Taraba State College of Education, 
56.
NYSC NEWS, APMAJU522020, ibid., p.0457. 58.
Ibid. Ibid. ,op.cit., p.05
NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS AND THE LABOUR MARKET 627
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Jalingo, he used to go out every year to supervise students on 
teaching practice in secondary schools across the state. It was 
clear that most of the secondary schools in the rural areas had 
only the principals, vice-principals and only one or two 
permanent staff, and the rest of the teaching staff were corps 
members. Some of the principals of these schools used to visit the 
State Secretariat of the NYSC every year to specially request for a 
good number of corps members to be posted to their schools. In 
an interview with Mr. Audu Yamusa, a retired principal, this is 
what he had to say:
In my over twenty years' experience as a principal, I 
found that if it were not for the NYSC members that 
were posted to teach in many of our schools in the 
state, many core subjects like Mathematics, English, 
Chemistry, Physics and Geography would have not 
been taught in several secondary schools in Taraba 59
State.”
He went further to explain that this reality of his time made him 
to maintain a very close and constant contact with the State 
Secretariat of the NYSC in order to ensure a steady supply of 
corps members whom he usually encouraged by paying them 
extra stipends from time to time. He said his cordial relationship 
with the NYSC staff at the Secretariat and corps members earned 
him the name, “ the good principal”, as a result of which many 60 
corps members were always willing to be posted to his school.
Corps members also help in the administration of the Unified 
Tertiary Matriculation Examination, where they see to the 
successful conduct of examinations.
The centrality of national unity and integration as core 
requirements of nation building has ever remained the driving 
force of the NYSC programme as can be seen in the scheme's 
59.
Interview with Mr. Audu Z. Yamusa, retired Principal, 67, at his residence no.46 
Adibyewi Street, Wapan-Nghanku Ward, Wukari, Taraba State, 22/08/2060.
Ibid.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020628
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

objectives and mode of operation already outlined in this paper. 
In achieving this, corps members are usually posted to states 
other than their states of origin. Given the conducive working 
environment most of them find in such states, they end up taking 
up permanent employment and by implication, permanent 
residence, after their service year. Some of them even go as far as 
to inter-marry among the people. By this, they are exposed to the 
diversities and cultural differences that uphold the nation. This 
is a clear demonstration of national unity and 61
integration. Commenting on this issue, the Minister of Works 
and Housing, Barrister Babatunde Raji Fashola, was quoted as 
saying that the objective of setting up the NYSC scheme has been 
achieved given the challenges that prevailed at the inception of 
the scheme. In his words, “If there are new threats to the 
perfection of our union today, they are different from those 62
which informed the establishment of the NYSC in 1973.”
When it comes to the area of rural infrastructure, a visit to 
some of the sites where corps members usually carry out their 
Community Development Service (CDS) would convince one of 
the contributions of the NYSC in this area of national 
development. An editorial, captioned “At 47, NYSC still a Pivot 
of National Unity and Development”, has this to say,
Beyond the forging of national unity among corps 
members many of whom settle and get integrated in 
their respective states of service, the Corps has been 
involved in community development service. Public 
conveniences, bus-stop stands, school buildings, 
culverts, bridges, water boreholes, classroom blocks, 
among so many other projects, have been initiated and 
executed by corps members through the mobilisation 
of their host communities, public-spirited individuals 63
and corporate bodies for development.
61.
Seehttps://www.quora.comaccessed     22/07/2062.
STANDARD FOCUS, op.cit., p.1163.
NYSC NEWS, APMAJU522020, op.cit., p.03
NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS AND THE LABOUR MARKET 629
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The editorial goes further to opine that,
…the greatest achievement of the Corps is in the area of 
youth-development, giving the over three hundred 
thousand youths mobilised for service every year 
focus, helping them attain their potentials and assisting 
them in gaining financial freedom through the NYSC 
Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development 64
programme.
As a youth's vanguard therefore, the NYSC can also be said to be 
contributing to the reduction of unemployment among this 
group. While in the service, corps members are paid a paltry sum 
of 20,000 naira monthly as stipend, though recently the amount 
was increased to about 30,000 naira. This is apart from the money 
being paid to some of them by the organisation they work for. 
Though this money can be said to be small given both the 
economic reality of the times and in comparison to the services 
they are expected to render as graduates, it however goes a long 
way to keep the corps members from societal vices, by keeping 
them busy. This way the government is likely to be spending less 
on security than it possibly should have been spending if the 
corps members were not being engaged via the scheme. In 
addition, with the rapidly growing population of the country, 
the NYSC can be said to be in the forefront of smothering the 
harm that usually befalls a population that is not planned for, by 
giving the Nigerian youths a respite and also nursing them to 
discover themselves on time before they could think of going 
criminal.
Corps members are purveyors' belt for development, 
behavioural change and nation-building. Since they can be 
found in the 774 Local Government Areas of Nigeria where they 
are serving the nation in all the sectors of the economy, they can 
be said to constitute agents of change in those localities. 
According to the present Director-General of the NYSC, “Corps 
64.
Ibid., p.04
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020630
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

members are everywhere in the nooks and crannies of this 
country. Even in the Escravos you see our corps members either 
working as medical doctors, nurses, medical laboratory 65 
scientists/technicians, teachers and so on.” They seem to drive 
the economy through their unquantifiable contributions to the 
small and medium scale enterprises while the larger market is 
not left aside. When it comes to the conduct of credible elections 
in the country, the members of the scheme are also seen as 
largely impartial and intellectually equipped to consolidate and 
extend the Nigerian democratic frontiers with little or no 
training, and this they have done credibly well since 2011. In the 
words of the current Director-General,
During my interactions with the INEC Chairman, he 
keeps telling us that “without the NYSC we won't be 
able to organise any election in this country”. Corps 
members are knowledgeable, smarter and can be held 
accountable. This is why corps members are always 66
used for the conduct of elections in Nigeria.
The NYSC has also carved a niche in galvanising several other 
programmes of the Federal Government, acquitting itself well 
each time it is called upon to perform strategic national 
assignments in the country's quest for development. The scheme 
has played several roles in “midwifing strategic national 
programmes such as elections, census, immunisation 67 
campaigns, etc.” Recently, corps members in their thousands, 
in collaboration with other stakeholders, namely, women youth 
groups, labour unions, civil society organisations and students 
participated in a road walk tagged “ Nigerian Youths March 
Against Corruption” in the 36 state capitals and in Abuja. In 
Kano State, NYSC NEWS reported that the current D-G of the 
scheme was among the dignitaries who participated in the walk, 
65.
Ibid., p.6966.
Ibid67.
STANDARD FOCUS, op.cit.
NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS AND THE LABOUR MARKET 631
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

which was jointly organised by the Economic and Financial 
Crimes Commission (EFCC), the Federal Ministry of Youth and 
Sports Development and the National Youth Service Corps 68
(NYSC).
Some Challenges Confronting the NYSC Scheme
Having looked at some of the successes that the NYSC could be 
said to have recorded in the different spheres of our national life 
over the years, it is important to examine some of the challenges 
that may be inhibiting the scheme from achieving its set goals in 
full. During the 2019 NYSC Annual Conference in Abuja, the 
current Director-General of the Corps, Brigadier-General 
Shuaibu Ibrahim noted some of these challenges to include 
“operational challenges occasioned by non-discharge of 
statutory responsibilities by some critical stakeholders and other 69 
dynamics of the operating environment.” The D-G specifically 
named the problems that the scheme has been grappling with to 
include dilapidated conditions of NYSC orientation camps in 
some states, inadequate Corps lodges and lack of befitting office 
accommodation, among others. In highlighting the areas of 
discussion during the conference, the D-G mentioned the NYSC 
enabling Act and bye laws sustaining the relevance of the 
scheme; establishment of NYSC radio; welfare and security of 
corps members and staff; deployment of ICT solutions for 70 
effective service delivery; etc. In his own address during the 
occasion, the Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Mr. 
Sunday Dare, seemed to have resonated the D-G by calling on 
stakeholders to honour statutory responsibilities and went on to 
declare that, “I am concerned that the successes recorded by 
corps members in the past are being impaired today by the 
inability of critical stakeholders, especially States and Local 
Governments, to fully discharge their statutory responsibilities 71
to the Scheme.”
68.
NYSC NEWS, APMAJU522020, op.cit., p.0769.
NYSC NEWS, OCNODE512019, op.cit., p.970. 71.
Ibid. Ibid., p.8
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020632
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Apart from the above problems that have been 
identified by the two critical stakeholders of the NYSC 
programme, there are many more challenges that have 
been identified by other stakeholders and the general 
public, which may not be necessary for us to into here. 
When the current Director-General proposed the 
deployment of ICT solutions for effective service delivery 
as noted above, one feels that it is something that needs 
serious and prompt attention because the world is rapidly 
going digital. But the question to ask is how prepared are 
Nigerian youths for the bourgeoning digital economy?
In a paper titled, 'National Youth Service Corps and the 
Future of Nigeria's Digital Economy', published on April 
10, 2019 in Youth Transforming Africa , Damilola Adeniran 
said the following as an answer to the question: how 
prepared are the youths for the emerging digital economy?
According to Wikipedia, the digital economy simply 
refers to an economy that is based on digital computing 
technologies. In Nigeria, the digital economy is 
expected to generate 88 billion dollars and three million 
jobs for citizens by 2021…we may not be prepared right 
now, but the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) 
provides the perfect incubator to prepare the youths for 
the digital future of work. Each year, the NYSC enlists 
at least 250, 000 graduates to gain work experience 
while serving the nation in locations that are new to 
them. The program has however been under-utilized, 
as policy makers have failed to recognize its potential. 
To change the narrative, my idea is to create a digital 
platform for NYSC members to sign up as digital 
Economy Ambassadors (DEA). This platform will 
provide networking and funding opportunities; 
learning resources and specified strategies for NYSC 
members to drive digitalization during the duration of 72
their service year.
72.
https//blogs.worldbank.org     25/07/20
NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS AND THE LABOUR MARKET 633
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

This is not only a good recipe for the NYSC's handlers but also a 
wake-up call to the country's policy makers and the whole 
political leadership. But beyond this and all the other challenges 
that have come to be associated with the NYSC, as a result of 
which there have been calls in some quarters for the scheme to be 
scrapped off, the problem is that of the entire Nigerian state and 
it is squarely the problem of leadership which is deeply rooted in 
the problem of underdevelopment. As a poor or materially 
backward country, the Nigerian leadership has been displaying 
lack of capacity towards economic development which has 
recently become more pronounced. If, for instance, the 
educational system, especially at the tertiary level where the 
participants of the NYSC scheme are produced, has been 
crawling, what can the latter do in the area of youth mobilisation 
towards nation building? As a nation therefore, we need to begin 
to tackle the problem of leadership in order to be able to deal 
with the challenges of underdevelopment which is presently 
manifesting in different facets of our national life.
References
1. Acemoglu, D. and Robinson, J.A. (2012) Why Nations Fail: 
The Origins of Power, Prosperity, and Poverty , Crown 
Publishing Group, New York, USA.
2. Achebe, C. (1984) The Trouble with Nigeria , Heineman 
Educational Books, Essex, UK.
3.  , (2012) There was a Country: A Personal History of 
Biafra, Penguin Books Ltd., New York, USA.
th 
4. Jhingan, M.L. (2003) Macro-Economic Theory , 11 Revised 
Edition, Vrinda Publications (P) Ltd., Delhi, India.
st 
5. _ _ _   _, (2016) The Economics of Development and Planning, 41
Edition, Vrinda Publications (P) Ltd., Delhi, India.
6. John Hatch (1971) Nigeria: A History , Heinemann 
Educational Books Ltd., Ibadan.
7. National Youth Service Corps Act Cap N84 Laws of the 
Federation of Nigeria 2004 
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020634
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

8. NYSC Hand Book, Revised in 1999.
9. NYSC NEWS : A Journal of NYSC Directorate Headquarters, 
OCNODE512019
10. NYSC NEWS : A Journal of NYSC Directorate Headquarters, 
APMAJU522020
11. Strategic Framework for the Skill Acquisition & 
Entrepreneurship Development (SEAD) Program of the National 
Youth Service Corps, a publication of the NYSC Directorate
12. STANDARD FOCUS - Special Edition, Issn24667530
13. Obaro Ikime (2006) History, the Historian and the Nation: The 
Voice of a Nigerian Historian, Heinemann Educational Books 
Plc, Ibadan
14. Okwudiba Nnoli (1980) Ethnic Politics in Nigeria , Fourth 
Dimension Publishers, Enugu.
15. The General Policy Guideline for NYSC Orientation 
Courses
16. W https://en.m.wikipedia.org> wiki 22/07/20
17. https//esub.com, 15/10/20
18. corporatefinanceinstitute.com > labour
19. , August 31, 2020
20. https://en.m.wikipedia.org. Accessed 21/09/20
21. Kenton, Will, “Human Capital”. Investopedia. Retrieved 
2019-03-28
22. https//www.cbo.gov, 20/10/20
23. https://www.quora.com accessed 22/07/20
24. https//blogs.worldbank.org 25/07/20
25. Interview with Mr. Audu Z. Yamusa, retired Principal, 67, 
at his residence no.46 Adibyewi Street, Wapan- Nghanku 
Ward, Wukari, Taraba State, 22/08/20
NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS AND THE LABOUR MARKET 635
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

SECTION FOUR: 
CHALLENGES AND PROSPECTS
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Chapter Twenty
THE TRANSMUTING CHALLENGES OF THE 
NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS 
SCHEME
Chris S. Orngu 
Department of History 
Benue State University 
Makurdi
Introduction
This chapter examines the challenges of the National Youth 
Service Corps Scheme from its inception in 1973 to 2020. The 
scheme was introduced by General Yakubu Gowon's 
administration for the purpose of national integration in order 
that national unity can define the essence of the country's 
corporeality. Regrettably, the scheme has been confronted with 
some challenges that seem to overwhelm the potency of its 
mandate. These challenges have continued to evolve and 
assume different forms and dimensions overtime. The 
transmuting challenges confronting the scheme are identified 
and analyzed here for the purpose of coming up with some novel 
approaches to dealing with them. The research enterprise 
employed the use of oral interviews and focus group discussions 
(primary sources) as the main sources of data collection. In 
addition to the primary sources, secondary sources were handy 
in providing the basis for content analysis and also 
complementing some shortfalls in the primary sources of data. It 
is the combination of these sources that facilitated the 
reconstruction of the history of NYSC with specific focus on its 
dynamics and transmuting challenges. Preliminary 
investigations reveal that since its inception, the challenges 
confronting the scheme are not static. This is largely because of 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

the drastic changes that have constantly characterized the socio-
economic and politicaltrajectory of the country. Security 
challenges, for instance, particularly since the outbreak of the 
Boko Haram menace in 2009 and the post-electoral violence that 
greeted the conduct of the 2011 general elections, have appeared 
preeminent in the plethora of challenges confronting the scheme 
in contemporary times. Again, the herdsmen/farmers conflict 
which is also a major security drawback confronting the country 
has posed a major challenge to the functionality of the scheme in 
recent times. The discourse recommends some realistic 
approaches to repositioning the NYSC scheme and ameliorating 
the transmuting challenges that daily confront the functionality 
of the scheme in the country.
The challenge of national integration in Nigeria predates the 
attainment of independence in the country. Since independence 
in 1960, Nigeria has remained entrapped in a complex web of 
challenges that manifest national solidarity crisis that often 
inadvertently translates to a sustained fragile unity and a 
crippling national integration process. This is the reality that has, 
over time, necessitated the experimentation of a number of 
remedial approaches to achieving national solidarity and 
national integration in the country. Whether or not these 
remedial approaches have taken the country to the threshold of 
achieving the desired national integration is an intellectual task 
that this discussion is set to examine against the backdrop of the 
establishment of the National Youth Service Scheme in 1973.
From the national population census/head counts crisis of 
1962, the Federal Electoral crisis of 1964 to the Western Regional 
Electoral crisis of 1965/6 through the thirty-month civil war that 
lasted between May 1967 and January 1970, socio-economic and 
political challenges have continued to hamper the country's 
national unity. Expectedly, and as noted earlier, it is the 
existence of these challenges and their impact on the country's 
socio-economic, cultural and political trajectory that have 
engineered some concerted efforts by successive governments in 
the country towards ensuring national cohesion. The National 
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020640
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Youth Service YouthCorps (NYSC) scheme is, therefore, a 
product of the concerted efforts aimed at national unity and, 
most fundamentally, national integration. 
Undoubtedly, since its inception in 1973, the scheme has 
attained some modest achievements in the direction of 
articulating the mandate for which it was created. One of the 
achievements of the scheme is that it has provided a sustained 
platform for cross- cultural socialisation among Nigerian 
graduates. However, the modest achievements recorded by the 
scheme have apparently fallen short of expectations by certain 
parameters of evaluation. For instance, the national integration, 
for which the scheme was conceived, has not been sufficiently 
achieved. It is, therefore, argued that the under-performance of 
the scheme is a function of a multiplicity of transmuting 
challenges. These challenges, which are instigated by the socio-
cultural, economic and political dynamics of the country, have, 
in no small measure, hampered the effective and efficient 
functionality of the mandate for which it was created. Scholars, 
public affairs analysts and social commentators have, in the past, 
1 
examined some of these challenges. However, the lack of a 
desired historical approach to the analysis of the challenges has 
often led to the methodological inappropriateness of the study of 
the NYSC problem as well as the analytical and conceptual 
underdevelopment of the fundamental issues at stake. In 
essence, much is still required to properly understand and 
analyse the transmuting nature of the challenges of the NYSC 
scheme. This is the main thrust of this disquisition.
National Integration: Some Coneptual Insights
Generally, there abounds the temptation to misappropriate the 
conceptual underpinning of certain concepts that are 
characterised by interpretative manipulation in differing mental 
constructs; and national integration appears to be one of such 
1 
See, for instance, Adeoti, Y.F. and O. O. Olaewe, O.O., “Problems and Counselling 
Needs of Corps Members,” African Research Review,Vol. 3 (1), 2009, 500.
THE TRANSMUTING CHALLENGES OF THE NYSC SCHEME 641
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

concepts. Added to that is the fact that national integration 
occupies a central place in the conversational domain of this 
work and, therefore, its meaning requires to be explored for the 
purpose of giving a sharp focus to the progress of this work.
For us to appreciate the analytical basis of the transmuting 
challenges of the NYSC from its inception, it is reasonable to 
build our argument around the idea and philosophy of national 
integration. To begin with, the colonial scheme brought African 2 
peoples into common territories of un-integrated societies. As a 
corollary, post-colonial African states inherited the challenge of 
very weak national centres that lacked and still lack internal and 3 
national cohesion. Thus, the weak national centres in post-
colonial African states, including Nigeria, significantly explain 
the roots of the challenge of national integration in the context of 
state- reconstruction. In the main, national integration gravitates 
from the consciousness to attain a collective identity and 
national cohesion in the interest of national development and 4 
collective greatness. Fundamentally, therefore, national 
integration is an enterprise that entails a collective identity 
within a nation as the basis for consensus, solidarity and the 5
shared acceptance of a patterned normative order.
Thus, for a national integration project to gain its grounds, 
there must be consciously evolved policies and strategies that 
will stimulate national consciousness in a people to the extent 
that they can unconditionally surrender their love and loyalty to 
their nation. Through this consciousness, the various peoples of 
ethno-religious and cultural diversity within a nation are 
expected to willingly accept and accommodate one another on 
2
Orngu, C.S., A Reconstruction of Nigeria's National Security Discourse for Nation 
Building, Makurdi, Bookmakers, 2010, p.11.3
Zolberg, A., “Patterns of Nation Building,” in Paden, J.N. and Soja, E.W., (eds), The 
African Experience, Vol. 1 Essays, Evanston, North Western University Press, 1970, p.70.4
Orngu, C.S., A Reconstruction of Nigeria's National Security Discourse for Nation 
Building, Makurdi, Bookmakers, 2010, p.12.5
Ikime, O., History, The Historian and the Nation: The Voice of a Nigerian Historian, 
Ibadan, Heinemann Educational Books, 2006, p.144.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020642
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

the basis of equality, collective identity and national solidarity. 
National integration is a dynamic process that involves the 
continuous shaping of attitudinal patterns of citizens towards 
positive contributions for the attainment of national cohesion 
and solidarity. It defies the characteristic elements of 
heterogeneity such as ethno-religious sympathy, hegemonic 
cultural tendencies and majority/minority dichotomies through 
strategic policies that unite rather than divide the citizens along 
parochial and primordial lines within a nation. The policy that 
informed the establishment of the NYSC scheme was inspired by 
the desire of the Yakubu Gowon-led Federal Military 
Government of Nigeria to achieve the basic tenets of national 
integration through cultural socialisation and shared value 
orientation.
A Historical Sketch of the National Youth Service Corps 
(NYSC) The history of the NYSC can be traced to the myriads of 
problems that followed the independence of Nigeria in 1960. 
Beginning from the census controversy of 1961/62 which 
reawakened fears of ethno- religious dominance that 
characterised the pre-independence periods to the Federal 
Election crisis of 1964/65 through the Civil war of 1967-1970, the 
Nigerian state has remained a geopolitical entity of forced unity. 
The problems tersely mentioned here did not only lead to the 
collapse of the First Republic in 1960, but also eclipsed the 
prospects of national cohesion in the country. The census crisis, 
for instance, was occasioned by the vehement rejection of census 
figures by some political elites. The reasons for the vehement 
rejection of the figures were rooted in the fear of ethno- religious 
hegemonic dominance and the vicious struggle for political 
control that had its origins in the 1952/53 National Census. 
Giving credence to this strand of thought, Larry Diamond notes 
as follows:
The 1962 national [population] census was not the first 
in Nigeria to become embroiled in suspicion 
THE TRANSMUTING CHALLENGES OF THE NYSC SCHEME 643
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

andcontroversy. Previous attempts to count the 
Nigerian population had met with popular distrust 
and resistance, accusations of regional bias and 
favouritism, and widespread suspicion of the results. 
These had all been sharply reflected in the most recent 
and professional census to date, that conducted in 1952 
and 1953. Widely suspected as a plot to increase the tax 
burden or to spy on families and their property, the 
1952-53 census was avoided by many Nigerians, and 
became engulfed in political controversy when the 
results, showing a majority of Nigerians in the 
Northern Region, were used to justify the assignment 
of half the seats in the Federal Legislature to the North. 
Southern politicians alleged that the British 
administrators had inflated the Northern population 
figures to ensure that political power in the country 6
remained with the northern politicians.
The rejection of the figures on the premise of manipulations in 
the north and the subsequent “campaigns” by southern leaders 
towards the 1962 census exercise and the “huge” figures 
returned in the south at the end of the exercise triggered the 
outright rejection by Northern leaders. The results of the 1962 
census showed that the population of the north had gone up 
from 16.5 million in 1952 to 22.5 million in 1962, indicting an 7
increase of 30% . In some parts of the east, there was an upsurge 
of population figures of more than 70% and about 70% 8 
population increase in the west. The census figures stood 
momentarily and were later replaced with figures from the 1963 
population census. The 1963 population figures were equally 
rejected by the Eastern and Western regions as untrue 
representation of the authentic population spread of the 
country. The results of the 1963 census showed that the north 
6
Diamond, L., Class, Ethnicity and Democracy in Nigeria: The Failure of the First Republic, 
London, Palgrave, 1988,131.7 
See Okolo, A., “The Nigerian Census: Problems and Prospects,” The Nigerian Statistician, 
Vol.53, No.4 (November, 1999), pp.321-325.8 
See Okolo, A., “The Nigerian Census: Problems and Prospects,” The Nigerian Statistician, 
Vol.53, No.4 (November, 1999), pp.321-325.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020644
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

had recorded an additional population increase of 8.5 million. 
Thus, the raging controversies that sprouted from the census 
figures did not only reawakened fears of ethnic and religious 
dominance but also regenerated a deep-seated sense of 
unpatriotic behaviour among the political elites. The 
consequences of these reflected monumental impact on the 
attitudinal disposition of political party followers and regional 
or ethnic patriots, led to the upsurge of unbridled ethno-regional 9
jingoism in the country during the first republic.
The second issue was the 1964 federal election crisis. The 
crisis did not only have a significant impact on the country's 
electoral process, but also on the country's national integration 
process. The federal election crisis occurred in 1964-5 as a 
consequence of the refusal of political elites of the Western and 
Eastern regions to accept the elections results of the 1964 federal 
elections. The crisis, as indicated by an informed source, was 
occasioned by feelings of marginalization, mutual suspicion, 
fear of ethnic domination and the struggle for power between 
the North and the South and the feelings of political deprivation 
which the southern political elites had harboured over the 10 
results of the elections in Northern Nigeria. The results of the 
elections showed the dominance of the north over the south in 
numbers of seats in the federal parliament and were, thus, out 
rightly rejected by the southern elites. Besides outright rejection, 
the political upheavals in Tivland that characterised the conduct 
of the elections were disastrous. The Tiv violence was aimed at 
dissipating the perceived and feared hegemony of Northern 11 
peoples—Hausa-Fulani dominance in Tivland. The political 
instability that reached a cataclysm with the western regional 
elections crisis of 1965 set the motion for the collapse of the First th 
Republic on 15 January 1966.
The third issue was the January 1966 coup and its aftermath. 
The January 1966 coup ushered the intervention of the Nigerian 
9 
Diamond, L., Class, Ethnicity and Democracy in Nigeria: The Failure of the First Republic , 
London, Palgrave, 1988,131.10
Aderonmu, J.A., “Civil Society and 2011 Elections in Nigeria,” in Egwemi, V., (ed), 
Issues in the 2011 General Elections in Nigeria, Ibadan, Sam-Adex Printers, 2013, p. 18.
THE TRANSMUTING CHALLENGES OF THE NYSC SCHEME 645
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Military into the country's political space. With the coup, it was 
thought the military would engineer their acclaimed messianic 
efforts of bridging the gaps that had persisted among the ethnic 
nationalities and were hampering national integration in post- 
colonial Nigeria. However, the way and manner the coup itself 
was executed further exacerbated suspicion and systematically 
plunged the country into a deepened conflict of trust. For 
instance, while the coup was successful in Northern and 
Western Nigeria with the elimination of top politicians such as 
the Prime Minister, Sir Abubakar Tafawa Balewa, Premier of 
Northern Region, Sir Ahmadu Bello, Premier of Western Region, 
Chief Samuel Ladoke Akintola, Finance Minister, Chief Festus 
Okotie-Eboh; and top military officers such as Brigadier 
Zakariya Maimalari, Colonel Kure Mohammad, Brigadier 
Samuel Ademulegun, Colonel R.A. Shodeinde, Lt Col J.Y Pam; 
Lt Col A.C Unegbe and Lt. Col Abogo Largema, the experience 
in eastern Nigeria was sharply different as virtually no military 12 
or civilian official from the axis was killed in the plot. Besides, 
majority of the coup plotters were from the Igbo extraction 
domiciled in the Eastern Region (namely Major Emmanuel 
Ifeajuna, Major Don Okafor, Major Chris Anuforo, Major Tim 
Onwuategwu, Major Humphrey Chukwuka, Captain. Ben 
Gbulie and Captain Ogbu Oriji), with the exception of Major 
Adewale Ademoyega, who was the only Yoruba Officer from 13 
the Western Region. This development generated, consolidated 
and reinvigorated the conflict of trust that heralded the country's 
independence. Eventually, the rowdy political atmosphere th 
instigated by the succession of these events culminated in the 29
July 1966 military counter-coup and the mutiny that was 
manned by young northern military officers. 
11 
Oral Interview with Rtd. Sergeant Anihundu Bako, World War II Veteran, 102, 
Mbaazagel Council Ward, Buruku LGA, Benue State, 15/8/2020.12
Orngu, C.S. and Kertyo, P.M., “The Military and Economic Diplomacy of the Nigerian 
State: The Ibrahim Babangida Years in Perspective” Kaduna Journal of Humanities, Vol. 2, 
Number 1, 2018, p. 190.13 
Adesote, S.A. and Falade, D.A., Distinct Comprehensive History for Senior Secondary 
Schools 1- 3, Ondo: Unique Mercy and Features Publisher, 2020, pp.148-158.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020646
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The brutal murder of General Aguiyi Ironsi by young 
northern officers completely eroded trust among ethnic 
nationalities and severely hampered the country's national 
integration process. What followed the coup was the Igbo 
pogrom in northern Nigeria and the subsequent secessionist 
agitations that resulted to the outbreak of Nigerian civil war in 
1967. The outbreak of the civil war ravaged trust and led to the 
deaths and wanton destruction of unquantifiable property. 
Besides, the war itself came as a result of a combination of 
political, economic and cultural factors that were embedded in 
the general fear of ethno-religious dominance that apparently 
stood against national unity. The war, however, came to an end th 
on 15 January 1970. The concomitant effects of the war on 
Nigeria's corporeality meant the introduction of national 
cohesion palliatives. The first of such was the introduction of the 
tripartite concepts of Reconciliation, Reconstruction and 
Rehabilitation (3Rs) by General Yakubu Gowon's 14 
administration. The 3Rs meant a complete resuscitation of trust 
and confidence in the Nigerian project and was aimed at 
ensuring the restoration of unity and peace in the country. The 
NYSC scheme was birthed as a child of the 3Rs.
Arising from the above, the NYSC was established through nd 
the instrumentality of Decree No. 24 of 1973 on 22 May 1973 to 
function as a platform for the mobilisation of lettered Nigerian 
youths for nation building and to also prepare them for patriotic 
and loyal service to the country. The service corps commenced 
operation on June 4, 1973, and six weeks later, precisely on July 2, 
1973, 2,364 graduates were mobilised as pioneer participants to 
commence the mandatory national service. The statutory 
mandate of the NYSC was, therefore, to:
i. inculcate discipline in Nigerian youths by instilling in 
them a tradition of industry of work, and, of patriotic and 
loyal service to Nigeria in any situation they find 
14
Mgbada, C.O., “The Igbo Struggle for Political Accommodation in Nigeria Since 1970: 
Issues, Problems and Prospects,” Okonkwo, U.U., et el (eds), History, Africa and 
Development: Festschrift in Honour of Professor U. D. Anyanwu, Vol. 1. , Morrisville, Lulu 
Press, 2018, p. 611.
THE TRANSMUTING CHALLENGES OF THE NYSC SCHEME 647
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

themselves;
ii. raise the moral tone of the Nigerian youths by giving them 
the opportunity to learn about higher ideas of national 
achievement, social and cultural improvement;
iii. develop in the Nigerian youths the attitudes of mind, 
acquired through shared experience and suitable training, 
which will make them more amenable to mobilization in 
the national interest;
iv. enable Nigerian youths acquire the spirit of self-reliance by 
encouraging them to develop skills for self-employment;
v. contribute to the accelerated growth of the national 
economy;
vi. develop common ties among the Nigerian youths and 
promote national unity and integration;
vii. remove prejudices, eliminate ignorance and confirm at 
first hand the many similarities among Nigerians of all 
ethnic groups; and
viii. develop a sense of corporate existence and common destiny 
15
of the people of Nigeria.
In order to articulate the mandate for which the scheme was 
created, the establishment was/is to ensure that:
i. the equitable distribution of members of the service corps 
and the effective utilization of their skills in areas of 
national needs;
ii. as far as possible, Nigerian youths are assigned to jobs in 
states other than their states of origin;
iii. such group of Nigerian youths assigned to work together is 
representative of Nigeria as far as possible;
iv. the Nigerian youths are exposed to the modes of living of 
the people in different parts of Nigeria;
v. the Nigerian youths are encouraged to eschew religious 
intolerance by accommodating religious differences; 
15
National Youth Service Corps Act. CAP N84 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004. 
NYSC ACT 1-3.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020648
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

vi. members of the service corps are encouraged to seek at the 
end of their one-year national service, career employment 
all over Nigeria, thus, promoting the free movement of 
labour; and
vii. employers are induced partly through their experience 
with members of the service corps to employ more readily 
and on a permanent basis, qualified Nigerians, irrespective 
16
of their states of origin.
The reasons for which graduating Nigerian youths were and 
have remained the primary target for the scheme have long been 
advanced. However, as further amplified by V. Ogwuche, the 
key reason was because of the conviction of the military 
leadership under General Yakubu Gowon that the youths are 
17 
potential leaders. Besides, graduating youths were considered 
to be more elitist and well informed in their thought patterns and 
ideological worldview. The basic idea was to encourage young 
graduates to understand the country's cultural diversity, 
especially when viewed against the backdrop of the challenges 
of national unity that confronted Nigeria immediately after 
independence, a combination of which ultimately snowballed 
into the outbreak of the fratricidal civil war.
The civil war itself played a significant role in compelling the 
Nigerian government to evolve strategic policies for national 
integration. In the first place, the war was a corollary of 
cascading divisive tendencies among ethno-regional champions 
and their military conspirators in post-colonial Nigeria. The 
irreconcilable antagonisms among these ethno-regional 
champions were anchored on their lack of proper appreciation 
of Nigeria's cultural diversity as evidenced in the variegated 
issues of political animosity with its roots in 1953 following the 
16
National Youth Service Corps Act. CAP N84 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004. 
NYSC ACT 2-3.17 
Oral Interview with Victoria Ogwuche, Civil Servant, 40, Makurdi, 7/9/2020.
THE TRANSMUTING CHALLENGES OF THE NYSC SCHEME 649
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

18 
motion of self-government by Chief Anthony Enaharo. M. 
Audu corroborates this notion when he argues that the NYSC 
came in 1973 courtesy of attempts by General Yakubu Gowon's 
administration to rebuild the country from the debris of the civil 
war and to ensure that the youths as leaders of tomorrow 
understand the nation's cultural diversity in the post- war 19
years. Besides helping young Nigerian graduating youths to 
understand and appreciate the nation's cultural diversity, the 
scheme was to assist and build manpower development for the 
economic growth of the country. Thus, going by the statutory 
mandate of the scheme, corps members were emphatically to 
provide the needed manpower in places like Onitsha and other 
eastern states that were ravaged by the civil war.
From the 2,364 graduating youths at inception in 1973, the 20 
scheme now mobilises over 300,000 participants yearly. As 
stated by A. Oyeniran, as at 2018, 4,071,581 Nigerian youths had 
participated in the scheme, and the scheme has continued to 21
exercise its constitutional objectives since creation in 1973.
Transmuting Challenges of NYSC
Established as a national integration and nation building 
palliative after the civil war, the NYSC has fared modestly well 
in articulating the mandate for which it was established. For 
instance, the scheme has, overtime, served as a veritable 
platform for young graduating youths to stay outside of their 
states of origin for a statutory period of one year with a view to 
understanding the reality of cultural diversity and thus 
overcoming cultural prejudices. By doing this, the NYSC has 
become the pacesetter in expanding the horizons of Nigerian 
youths and providing the platforms for interaction with their 
contemporaries from different parts of the country. This has 
18
Orngu, C.S., Socio-Political Conflicts and Nigeria's External Relations, 1953-2005, Lagos, Bahiti 
and Dalila, 2014.19
Oral Interview with Monday Audu, Civil Servant, 38, Makurdi, 7/9/2020.20
A. Oyeniran, “NYSC At 46: Its Success, Challenges: Independent, June 5, 2019, https:// 
www.independendent.ng/nysc-at-46-its-successes-challenges/. Assessed 30/8/2020.21
A. Oyeniran, “NYSC At 46: Its Success, Challenges: Independent, June 5, 2019, https:// 
www.independendent.ng/nysc-at-46-its-successes-challenges/. Assessed 30/8/2020.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020650
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

inspired long-lasting bonds of friendship and built bridges 
across cultural divides. Indeed, NYSC has become a pivot of 
national unity as several inter-tribal marriages have been 
contracted as a result of exposure of youths to the service corps 
scheme. Again, since its creation, the scheme has, to an extent, 
promoted national unity by way of allowing graduating youths 
from different states of the federation to cross-ventilate ideas 
about the peace and development of the country through cross-
cultural socialization that has sometimes resulted into inter-
ethnic marriages. Besides, the Community Development 
Service (CDS) of the scheme has exposed corps members to 
challenges in their host communities which some have been 
addressed within time and space, although not without some 
constraints. Through CDS, corps members have provided basic 
amenities like boreholes, toilet facilities, culverts in 
communities in Kastina-Ala, Gboko, and Otukpo, amongst 22 
other places in Benue State. In 2016, a corps member, Joy 
Chinemerem Anuforo, who did her primary assignment with 
Mbagen Community Health Clinic, Abwa Mbagen, Buruku 
LGA, Benue State, between 2015 and 2016, rallied round to raise 
some funds for the provision of an incubator for the maternity 23
section of the clinic+.
The NYSC has also encouraged many corps members to 
settle in the states they were deployed to serve, having pulled 
down the barriers of ethnic suspicions and unfounded 
stereotypes resulting from first-hand experience of other 
cultures. Some former corps members that have remained in 
states where they were posted have immensely contributed to 
the development of such states. In Benue State, for instance, 
Chief Isaac Akinkunmi, the owner of Titogate Enterprises, has 
contributed to the development of the state. Titogate is a thriving 
business enterprise established in Makurdi by a former Corps 
member who served in Benue State. The business enterprise 
engages in the production, distribution and sale of various 
22 
Oral Interview with Victoria Ogwuche, Civil Servant, 40, Makurdi, 7/9/2020.23 
Oral Interview with Joy Chinemerem Anufogo, Former Corps member, 32, Abuja, 
28/10/ 2020.
THE TRANSMUTING CHALLENGES OF THE NYSC SCHEME 651
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

brands of yoghurt and table water. It is into 
restaurant/catering services, fast food/eateries and 
confectionaries with a wide spread of distribution 
network. The staff strength of the enterprise is drawn from 
the local populace – which clearly indicates that the 
business has sustained itself and has, at the same time, 
tackled a percent ratio of unemployment challenge for the state. 
Thus, while making profit and creating job opportunities for the 
indigenes of the state, the business is contributing to the 24
economic growth of the state as well.
Equally important is how the scheme has been contributing 
in supplementing manpower deficit in the country. The posting 
of corps members to different establishments across the country 
for their primary assignments means a critical intervention in 
the manpower deficit of some of the establishments. Due to a 
number of factors, some establishments like schools, banks, 
hospitals and construction firms, among others, have always 
depended on the skilled manpower supply from the NYSC 
scheme for their sustainability and growth. In Benue State, for 
instance, Mbagen Community Health Clinic largely depends on 
medical graduates on NYSC scheme for professional services. 
This is a major contribution to the growth and development of 
the nation's economy.
In spite of the above and other successes of the scheme, the 
NYSC has also experienced transmutation of challenges. A 
closer look at some of these challenges is necessary for the 
purpose of identifying and dissecting them for analytical 
purposes. The challenges are not discussed in any particular 
order of importance or significance. In most cases, they appear to 
be interlaced both in their characters and manifestations. But in 
the main, the security challenge, which appears the most 
disturbing, is accorded the most detailed and elaborate attention 
in this work. Since its establishment in 1973, funding appears to 
have remained the major challenge of the scheme. The funding 
24    
Researcher's field work/survey, Makurdi, 7/9/2020.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020652
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

that is required to effectively drive the scheme and cater for 
youth corps members has always been inadequate. As a 
deliberate effort to address the persistent shortfalls in the 
funding of NYSC, the Federal Government has, in the last few 
years, stepped up the annual budgetary allocation to NYSC. The 
annual budgetary allocation of NYSC has been pegged at N70 25
billion ($194 million) per annum since 2017.
There is also the challenge of red-tapism otherwise known as 
bureaucratic bottlenecks. The National Headquarters of NYSC 
appears to be operating a system of over-centralized 
administration where the various state secretariats lack the 
operational capacity to respond rapidly to emerging challenges 
without recourse to the approval of the centre.Security challenge 
appears predominant in the face of other plethora of challenges 
confronting the NYSC scheme, especially beginning from 1999, 
when a new democratic order was instituted in the country. To 
say the least, the cascading security problem in the country has 
adversely affected the articulation of the statutory mandate for 26
which the NYSC scheme was established. Next is the 
introduction of Sharai in parts of the country, generated anxiety 
in corpers and their parents across the country. By the end of 
2001, 11 other states (Bauchi, Borno, Gombe, Jigawa, Kaduna, 
Kano, Katsina, Kebbi, Niger, Sokoto, Yobe) joined Zamfara in 
enacting wide-ranging legislation aimed at making their 
jurisdictions more sharia-compliant, incorporating both civil 
and criminal matters, than had formerly been. In summary, the 
introduction of Sharia Law meant that:
i. All Sharia States reinstated Islamic criminal law in their 
jurisdictions.
ii. All Sharia States also enacted Sharia Law Courts, 
establishing new inferior Sharia Courts, with original 
jurisdiction to apply the full range of Islamic law, civil and 
criminal, to Muslims.
25
A. Oluwakayode, “Has the NYSC Outlived Its Usefulness?” Vanguard, April 19, 2018.26 
Oral interview with TerwaseOrban, Civil Servant, 43, Makurdi,  31/8/2020.
THE TRANSMUTING CHALLENGES OF THE NYSC SCHEME 653
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

iii. A wide range of other legislation was enacted and aimed at 
particular 'social vices' and 'un-Islamic behaviour', such as 
the consumption of alcohol, gambling, prostitution, 
unedifying media, and the excessive mixing together of 
unrelated males and females.
iv. A range of other ' ulama institutions' were established – 
Sharia Commissions and Councils of Ulama with advisory 
and executive functions; Zakat and Endowment Boards and 
Committees for the collection and distribution of zakat and 
the administration of wakfs; hisbah organisations to monitor 27
and try to enforce Sharia compliance; and others.
The Boko Haram menace is another serious security 
challenge confronting the NYSC scheme, especially in the North 
East geopolitical zone of the country. Since the killing of its 
leader— Mohammad Yusuf by security agencies in 2009, Boko 
Haram terrorists have ravaged the North Eastern geopolitical 
axis and have constituted and remained Nigeria's greatest 
security quagmire. The height of the activities of the group 
particularly from 2010-2014 have led to the temporary closure of 
NYSC orientation camps in states like Borno, Adamawa and 28 
Yobe. Deployment of graduating youths to these states has 
become a serious challenge for the scheme. Initially, prospective 
corps members who were deployed to these states had their 
orientation camps in other states like Benue, Kogi, Nasarawa 
and Abuja and were assigned to places of primary assignment in 
urban areas in these states. But as time progressed, especially 
with the capture of Chibok girls and the attack on schools by the 
terrorists, the designated areas of deploying corps members to 
local government areas in the north east has drastically 29 
reduced. Furthermore, with the capture and declaration of local 
government areas like Bama, Mubi and Damoa as caliphates by 
the Boko Haram sect in 2014, corps members were no longer 
27
"Sharia Implementation in Northern Nigeria After 15 Years” 
https://www.qeh.ox.ac.uk/ content/sharia-implementation-northern-nigeria-after-
15-years. Assessed 3/9/2020.28   
Oral Interview with Victoria Ogwuche, Civil Servant,  40, Makurdi, 7/9/2020.29   
Oral Interview with Victoria Ogwuche, Civil Servant,  40, Makurdi, 7/9/2020.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020654
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

posted to the local government areas and eighteen (18) other 
local government areas across the three states of Borno, 
Adamawa and Yobe states. Besides, corps members that were 
posted to these states were given the leverage to redeploy to 
states of their preferred choice. This development has thrown up 
a major challenge to the statutory mandate of the scheme as 
noted above.
Another serious security challenge facing the scheme is 
electoral and post-electoral violence. Since the involvement of 
the youth corps members in the conduct of general elections 
which began with their participation as polling clerks in the 
conduct of Kogi State Governorship re-run election on 29th 
March, 2008, corps members have continued to participate in the 
conduct of general elections in the country. The success of this 
first involvement led to further engagement of corps members in 
the conduct of bye- elections, re-run and supplementary 
elections. What followed on the heels of the Kogi re-run elections 
was the use of corps members as ad hoc staff during the February 
2010 Anambra Governorship election. Initially, as observed 
with the Anambra experience, corps members were neither 
molested nor killed during electioneering process. Elaborating 
on this development, K. Okafor notes that:
The use of corps members as INEC ad hoc staff proved to 
be effective in Anambra State. The corps members were 
patriotic and discharged their functions diligently. As 
youths who were deployed to Anambra State for 
national assignment, their security was guaranteed as 
the locals ensured they were not hurt and maximally 
cooperated with them to ensure the re-election of Mr. 30
Peter Obi as the Governor of Anambra State.
The Anambra experience informed the decision of the then 
INEC Chairman, Professor Attahiru Jega, to officially 
collaborate with NYSC authorities as critical stakeholders to 
30
Oral Interview with Kelvin Okafor,  Business Owner, 45, Gboko, 4/8/2020.
THE TRANSMUTING CHALLENGES OF THE NYSC SCHEME 655
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

facilitate the subsequent engagement of corps members as ad hoc 
staff during electioneering periods in the country. The first 
general election that witnessed the mass deployment and 
engagement of corps members as ad hoc staff was the 2011 
general elections. However, the experience of the 2011 general 
elections proved disastrous as corps members suffered during 
the post-election violence that greeted the five (5) northern states 31 
of Bauchi, Kaduna, Gombe, Niger and Kano. The causes of the 
post-electoral violence were numerous but most essentially they 32
were politically motivated.
In any event, it is instructive to note that the bases of the 
causes of the post-election violence were anchored on the fear of 
ethno- religious dominance that had become an imposing 
characteristic of post-colonial Nigeria. The fears of ethno-
religious dominance were traced to the announcement of the 
presidential election results that returned Goodluck Jonathan as 
Nigeria's president during the 2011 presidential election. In the 
first place, the political atmosphere during the election under 
review was charged with ethno-religious rhetoric and 
antagonistic sloganeering that presumably heralded the 
probability of a violent outcome. Moreover, there was already a 
charged atmosphere and an uneasy tension that were instigated 
by the zoning crisis that were hinged on the eligibility of 
Goodluck Jonathan to contest the presidential elections under 
the circumstances of an acclaimed violation of geopolitical 33
power shift.
With the announcement of the presidential results, irate 
youths in some northern states unleashed terror that resultantly 
led to the death of corps members who participated in the 
election as ad hoc staff. The scenario, which was tantamount to 
terror, was informed by what A. Jega called “crisis of 
31
Aderonmu, J.A., “Civil Society and 2011 Elections in Nigeria,” ...p. 20.32
Egwemi, V., “issues in the 2011 General Elections in Nigeria: An Introduction” 
Egwemi, V., (ed), Issues in the 2011 General Elections in Nigeria,P. 1-12. Also, see 
Azaigba, K.T., “The Historicity of Electoral Violence in Nigeria” in Tsuwa, J.T. and 
Ikpanor, E.T., (eds), The 2015 General Elections in Nigeria: Emerging Issues, Abuja, 33
Donafrique Publishers, 2017, pp. 1-13. O. Adeniyi, Against the Run of Play, How an 
Incumbent President was Defeated in Nigeria. (Lagos: Prestige, 2017), 12.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020656
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

34 
expectation” from some youths in Northern Nigeria. In Bauchi, 
for instance, CPC supporters took to violence as a means to 
express their dissatisfaction with the election result. In the 
process, at least 50 people including nine serving corps members 
in the state were killed. The nine corps members were Adewumi 
Seun (Ekiti), Teidi Tosin (Kogi), Adowei Elliot (Bayelsa), 
Okpokiri Obinna (Abia), Gbenjo Ayotunde (Osun), Ukeoma 
Chibuzor (Imo), Nwazema Chukwuonyerem (Imo), Adeniji 35 
Jehleel (Osun) and Akonyi Sule (Kogi). The killing of these 
corps members by irate youths led to the evacuation of some 
corps members by their respective home governments and 
parents. Akwa Ibom, for instance, in the wake of the post-
electoral violence, evacuated eighty-three (83) corps members 
from Bauchi. Arguing on why they were evacuated, the then 
Governor of the state, Obong Godswill Akpabio, stated that:
We acceded to the numerous requests and pleas of 
worried and agitated parents across the state whose 
sons and daughters were trapped in the troubled area of 36
Bauchi following the post-election violence…
Another serious security issue that is confronting the scheme is 
the herdsmen/farmers violent conflicts in some states in North 
Central geopolitical zone of Nigeria, especially Benue and st 
Plateau States. Since the beginning of the 21 century, 
herdsmen/farmers violent conflicts have remained a serious 
security challenge for the country and the NYSC scheme. For 
instance, herders/farmers clashes in Yelwa-Shendam area of 
34 
The then INEC Boss Professor Attahiru have in different intellectual discourses argued that 
the post-electoral violence that greeted the 2011 general elections was informed by crisis of 
expectation from some northern youths for felt their preferred candidate General 
Muhammadu Buhuri of the defunct CPC won the elections.35
S. Tukur and M. Lere, “Some NYSC Members Killed in Bauchi were PDP's IT Consultants— 
CPC Spokesman, Fasakin” Premium Times . https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/ 
113299-some-nysc-members-killed-in-bauchi-were-pdp-it-consultants/.     Assessed     
9/10/2020.36 
S. Tukur and M. Lere, “Some NYSC Members Killed in Bauchi were PDP's IT Consultants— 
CPC Spokesman, Fasakin” Premium Times . https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/ 
113299-some-nysc-members-killed-in-bauchi-were-pdp-it-consultants/.     Assessed     
9/10/2020.
THE TRANSMUTING CHALLENGES OF THE NYSC SCHEME 657
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Plateau State between 2002 and 2004 led to the loss of about lives 
in Gwer-West, Kwande, Logo, Makurdi between 2002 and 37 
2014. The trend has assumed the characteristics of a recurrent 
decimal. In January 2016, herdsmen massacred over three 
hundred farmers in Agatu Local Government Area of Benue 
State and killed over forty people while within the same period, 
a good number of farmers were killed by herdsmen in Nimbo 38 
village in Uzo-Uwani Local Government Area of Enugu State.
The death toll of people occasioned by herdsmen attacks in 
Benue State from 2014 to 2016, according to the Executive 
Governor of the state, Samuel Ortom, was one thousand, eight 39 
hundred and seventy eight. In 2018, attacks by herdsmen in 
states like Benue, Taraba, Nasarawa, Adamawa, Plateau, 
Ebonyi, Delta, and Kaduna had hit a mind-bogging figure of 
over nine hundred and four deaths and from January to April 
2019, herdsmen had killed over fifty people during attacks in 
Guma, Makurdi, Kwande and Logo Local Government Areas of 40 
Benue State. The unabated killings of people by herdsmen in 
Benue State have instilled founded fears in prospective corps 
members that are posted to Benue and other sister states like 41
Plateau in the Benue valley.
Other security challenges that have confronted the scheme in 
Benue State and other parts of the country were characterized by 
communal conflicts. In Benue State, the experience in Okpokwu 
Local Government Area, where corps members in the local 
government were redeployed readily illustrates this reality. The 
general state of insecurity in local government areas like 
Kastina- Ala, Ukum and Logo popularly referred to as “Sankara 
axis” of Benue State has attained an inexplicable level of 
37
Ameh C. Godwin, “Full Text of Governor Ortom's Speech During Buhari's visit to Benue,”
Daily Post. 12 March 2018, https://www.dailypost.ng. Assessed 5/8/2020.38
Ajibo, H.,et al., “Dynamics of Farmers and Herdsmen Conflict in Nigeria: Implication to 
Social Work Policy Intervention,” International Journal of Humanities and Social Science, Vol.   8, 
No. 7, 2018, p. 157.39 
Godwin, “Full Text,” ...40 
“Over 904 Killed Across Eight States in First Four Months of 2018,” accessed 5 December 
2018, https://www.theeagleonline.com.ng>amp. J. Charles, “Again, Herdsmen Kill Five in 
Benue” Punch. 4 April 2019,https://punchng.com>again-herdsmen. Assessed 5/6/2019.41 
Oral Interview with Ayodele Samuel, Corps Member, 27, Makurdi, 10/9/2020.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020658
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

destruction of lives and properties and distortion of numerous 42 
human activities. Corps members in these local government 
areas live in perpetual fears to the extent that many of them have 43
always sought redeployment to safer places.
Another transmuting challenge of the NYSC scheme is poor 
remuneration. Arguably, the poor remuneration has provided 
the motivational basis for prospective and serving corps 
members to show desperation for “juicy” postings. Generally, 
the economic realities of the Nigerian state have raised the cost 
of living to a very high level that has become unreachable to 
many income earners. Earnings are not rising in consonance 
with the micro and macro-economic trends in the country. This 
has adversely affected the material condition of an average 
Nigerian. The monthly allowance of a corps member, which was 
N19,800 and has recently been increased to N33,000, is still 
inadequate to support an average meaningful livelihood. Thus, 
survival instincts in the face of biting economic realities have 
played an active role in pushing some prospective and serving 44 
corps members into the lobbying game for juicy postings.
Clearly, therefore, there is a connecting link between the 
country's security challenges and its unfavourable economic 
realities in explaining and understanding the growing trend of 
lobbying for juicy postings by prospective and serving corps 
members.
The issue of undue redeployment and outright rejection of 
corps members by some private organisations, government 
ministries, departments and agencies is another challenge of the 
scheme. Outright rejection, for instance, by private 
organisations under the claims of lack of adequate finance and 
accommodation facilities to cater for the welfare of corps 
members, is particularly worrisome. In Benue State, for instance, 
corps members who are being rejected in their places of primary 
42 
Oral Interview with Alfred Tyopav, Political Party Chieftain, 49, Katsina-Ala, Benue 
State, 6/9/2020.43 
Oral Interview with Ayodele Samuel, Corps Member, 27, Makurdi, 10/9/2020.44 
Focus Group Discussion with Corps Members at NYSC Permanent Orientation 
Camp, Wannune, Tarka Local Government Area of Benue State, 10/9/2020.
THE TRANSMUTING CHALLENGES OF THE NYSC SCHEME 659
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

assignment for some of the reasons identified above usually 
45 
become stranded, frustrated and psychologically affected.
Most corps members who suffered outright rejection end up 
46 
absconding from the national service. In some instances, some 
government ministries and agencies in Benue State accepted 
corps members without giving them local allowances and 
accommodation facilities and thereby exposing them to undue 
47 
hardship. This is particularly true of ministries of Information, 
Culture and Tourism; Youths and Sports; and Women and 
Social Development who do not pay corps members their 
expected local allowances and do not provide accommodation 
48
facilities.
Infrastructure deficit is another issue of serious concern. The 
dilapidation of structures in most orientation camps is also a 
challenge confronting the scheme. In most orientation camps, 
structures such as halls, toilets, bathrooms and hostels are in 
dilapidated forms. In specific terms, infrastructure deficit as 
evidenced in the unremitting poor state of permanent 
orientation camps for prospective corps members in the country 
has remained a huge challenge. The state of infrastructure at the 
NYSC permanent orientation camp at Wannune, Tarka Local 
Government Area of Benue State, clearly illustrates the deficit of 
infrastructure – bad road network, epileptic power supply, 
accommodation deficit, lack of equipment and inefficient water 
49
supply, among others. In Wannune orientation camp, many of 
50
the structures are sliding to a sorry state. This challenge is 
replicated in most of the permanent orientation camps in the 
45
Focus Group Discussion with Corps Members at NYSC Permanent Orientation Camp, 
Wannune, Tarka Local Government Area of Benue State, 10/9/2020.46 
Oral Interview with Mrs. Comfort M. Orngu, Civil Servant, 47, Makurdi, 10/9/2020.47 
Focus Group Discussion with Corps Members at NYSC Permanent Orientation Camp, 
Wannune, Tarka Local Government Area of Benue State, 10/9/2020.48 
Focus Group Discussion with Corps Members at Makurdi Local Government Area 
Secretariat, Makurdi, 10/9/2020.49 
Oral Interview with Tyolumun Upaa, Civil Servant, 50, Wannune, Tarka LGA, Benue 
State, 10/9/2020.50
Focus Group Discussion with Corps Members at NYSC Permanent Orientation Camp, 
Wannune, Tarka Local Government Area of Benue State, 10/9/2020.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020660
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

country. The same picture is replicated in Ekiti State orientation 
camp and the orientation camps in Kebbi, Ondo and Taraba 
states. Lack of basic amenities in orientation camps, most times, 
dampens the morale of corps members who are posted to these 
51
states of the federation. There are other areas where temporary 
orientation camps are provided without the minimum standard 
requirements of infrastructure. The general consequence of this 
on the mental and psychological disposition of many corps 
members is negative since the first impression does not present a 
positive atmosphere that motivates a commitment of a call to 
52
national duty.
The yearly increasing number of Nigerian graduates who 
fall within the national service scheme of NYSC presents another 
challenge. At the point of its inception, the establishment 
probably did not expect that there was going to be such a drastic 
upsurge in the number of Nigerian graduates that would be 
participating in the NYSC scheme. Today, the scheme caters for 
an average graduate population of over 300,000 yearly. 
Accommodate thisyearly increasing numbers has become a 
major challenge. This situation is further exacerbated by the 
upsurge in the number of federal, state and private universities 
as well as the proliferation of other tertiary institutions in the 
country over the years. The granting of approval to some 
Colleges of Education to run degree programmes have also 
contributed to the yearly increase in the number of Nigerian 
53 
graduates being mobilised for NYSC
51 
Oral Interview with Desmond Kpamdue, Former Corps Member, 33, Anyiin, Logo LGA, 
Benue State, 5/9/2020.52
Focus Group Discussion with Corps Members at Makurdi Local Government Area 
Secretariat, Makurdi, 10/9/2020.53 
There are no fewer than 170 universities (federal, state and private) currently operating in 
Nigeria. This is aside from the 119 polytechnics (federal, state and private) that are currently 
in the country. Added to this are monotechnics and other degree-awarding institutions in the 
country. Apart from these, there are foreign universities that turn out graduates of Nigerian 
citizenship. Such graduates that fall within the age specification of the NYSC scheme are 
eligible for participation in the national service. For more on Nigeria's university system, read 
Orngu, C.S., “Public University System in Nigeria: Some Conceptual and Historical 
Discourses,” in Orngu, C.S. and Wuam, T., (eds), Public University Governance in Nigeria: A 
Festschrift, Professor Msugh Moses Kembe, Lagos: Cosmopolitan Book Services, 2018.
THE TRANSMUTING CHALLENGES OF THE NYSC SCHEME 661
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Associated with the above, the challenge of irregular 
academic calendar in our institutions of higher learning. The 
upsurge in the number of Nigerian universities and 
polytechnics and the proliferation of other tertiary institutions 
coupled with incessant strikes by unions have made it 
practically impossible for the existence of a uniform timeline for 
graduation in the country. This challenge is compounded by 
persistent strikes by the Academic Staff Union of Universities 
(ASUU) and other relevant trade union organisations within the 
country's tertiary education sector such as Non Academic Staff 
Union (NASU) and Senior Staff Association of Nigerian 
Universities (SSANU). The failure of the relevant authorities and 
the trade unions to resolve the nagging and contentious issues at 
stake explains the notorious character of this persistent 
challenge.
Closely related to the above is the cascading rate of post-
service unemployment in Nigeria. The rate of unemployment of 
graduates in Nigeria has been continuously rising in 
astronomical proportion. Beginning from 2010, close to three 
hundred thousand (300,000) Nigerian youths are drawn yearly 
into the labour market at the completion of their NYSC service 
year. About 13.9 million Nigerian youths are currently 
54 
unemployed going by the data of the National Bureau of statics.
This development has pushed a good number of serving corps 
members to engage in illegal activities like drug trafficking, 
armed robbery, thuggery, kidnapping and other outlandish 
social vices that have continued to hamper the socio-economic 
and political development of the country. Thus, rather than 
contribute to the meaningful development of the country, they 
are caught in the web of crime in the desperate efforts to make 
and save money to be able to confront the challenging realities of 
their post-service life. The situation does not offer a defensive 
excuse for perpetuation of crime by affected corps members; but 
it paints a clearer picture of a frustrating experience that drives 
54 
Official figures of unemployed youths in Nigeria as released by the National Bureau 
of Statistics. August 2020.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020662
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

and ruins the lives of many potentially enterprising youths who 
have lost their potentials and prospects in the cause of rendering 
their statutorily mandatory service to their fatherland. This is 
indeed a challenge that has sprouted out of the unenviable 
realities of the Nigeria's social and economic uncertainties.
There is also the challenge of the growing number of fake 
corps members in various orientation camps and some places of 
primary assignment. The menace of fake corps members is 
identified as an evolving social issue that relates to the litany of 
problems within and outside Nigeria's university education 
system. The number of fake or incompetent graduates has been 
growing increasingly in the country over the last one or two 
decades. The situation is compounded by the upsurge in the 
acquisition of foreign degree certificates and the proliferation of 
illegal universities and other higher institutions of learning in 
the country. For instance, in 2018, the authorities of the NYSC 
informed the National Universities Commission (NUC) of the 
presence of corps members who displayed the lack of academic 
ability and intelligence level expected of genuine Nigerian 
graduates, which were consistently exhibited by three graduates 55 
of the Enugu State University of Science and Technology.
Consequently, a panel of investigation was instituted by NUC to 
look into the issues relating to the academic deficiency of the 
affected graduates. The management of ESUT was also 
prompted to investigate the matter. Following the reports of the 
investigation panels set up by the NUC and the university, the 
ESUT Senate at its 239th regular meeting held on Wednesday, 
June 5, 2013, received and considered the reports of the 
55
The names and particulars of the affected graduates were Nwankwo Elias 
Chukwuebuka, code number NG/11B/1660, B.Sc Electrical/Electronic with call-up No. 
NYSC/EST/2011/ 177093; Mba, Linda Alumnae, code number LA/11B/5245, B.Sc 
Electrical/Electronics, call- up number NYSC/EST/2011/178882 with matriculation 
number ESUT/2005/96998; and Okochi Adaeze Kate, code number AD/12B/0389, B.Sc 
Geography and Meteorology with call-up No. NYSC/ ESUT/2012/148292, 
matriculation number   ESUT/2006/10400.   For further details, see Iyabo Lawal, 
“Fishing Out Fake Graduates in NYSC,” The Guardian, August 15, 2019, p.1.56
Iyabo Lawal, “Fishing Out Fake Graduates in NYSC,” The Guardian, August 15, 2019, 
p.1.
THE TRANSMUTING CHALLENGES OF THE NYSC SCHEME 663
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

investigation panels and upheld that the certificates issued to the 56
affected graduates be withdrawn. Apart from the mobilization 
of improperly groomed graduates for national service, there is 
also the growing menace of fraudulent mobilization of fake 57 
corps members for national service in the country. These 
categories of fake corps members are mainly made up of 
students who have not been able to satisfy the necessary 
requirements for graduation from their universities or other 
tertiary institutions but are able to forge the relevant documents 
in conspiracy with some fraudulent elements to obtain their call-58 
up letters for national service. The resultant outcome of these 
fraudulent exercises is the constant flooding of the various 
orientation camps across the country with fake corps members 
who eventually find themselves in different parts of the country 
for their national service. This is an integrity challenge for the 
NYSC scheme.
Age falsification has also become a common denominator in 
Nigeria. It is prevalent in the public and civil service and in the 
country's educational system where a lot of people alter their 
date of birth to fit into their target schemes. For eligible 
participation in the NYSC scheme, a Nigerian graduate is 
expected to fall within the age of thirty years or less. Any age 
above thirty years is not acceptable. However, for certain 
reasons, students who graduate above thirty years of age still 
find their way to participate in the national service through the 
falsification of their age status. This is encouraged by the 
poroqsity in the process for statutory declaration of age in 
Nigeria's judiciary. This has created the room for a good number 
of wrong persons to participate in the NYSC scheme on a yearly 
basis.
Efforts at Mitigating the Transmuting Challenges of NYSC
Over the years, there have been some institutionalised efforts in 
addressing some of the challenges associated with the NYSC 
57
Iyabo Lawal, “Fishing Out Fake Graduates in NYSC,” The Guardian, August 15, 2019, p.1. 58
Focus Group Discussion with Corps Members at NYSC Permanent Orientation Camp, 
Wannune, Tarka Local Government Area of Benue State, 10/9/2020.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020664
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

scheme, some of which have recorded appreciable levels of 
achievements. Oyeniran argues that NYSC scheme has 
continued to renew and make itself indispensable through 
evolving policies and programmes that have clearly identified it 
as a foremost institution and vehicle for driving national unity 59 
and development in the country. For instance, as a way of 
mitigating the serious infrastructural deficit, the scheme, in 
collaboration with state governments, has established 37 
permanent orientation camps across the thirty-six states of the 
federation including Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory. In 
addition to this, through the Public Private Partnership (PPP) 
model, NYSC has completed the building and equipping of a 
1,000-capacity integrated skills acquisition training centre in 
Gombe State and Ekiti State. The centres are to be replicated in 
each of the six geopolitical zones to enhance the training of corps 60 
members for skills acquisition while in service. This policy is 
intended to equip and prepare serving corps members for their 
post-service life. Again, in Benue State, for instance, the NYSC 
authorities, in collaboration with the Association of Local 
Government Chairmen of Nigeria (ALGON) and the Benue 
State Government have constructed a Multi-Purpose Hall and 
provided electricity at the Wannune NYSC permanent 61 
orientation camp. Through collaborative efforts, a number of 
motorised boreholes have been constructed in some orientation 
camps across the country to ease the challenge of perennial 
water scarcity and to provide adequate water supply for corps 
members during their mandatory three weeks orientation 62 
camp. Some Local Government Chairmen in Benue State have 
intermittently donated items like food stuffs and gasoline 
generators to areas that are either not connected to public power 63 
supply or areas that do not enjoy steady electric power supply.
59 
A. Oyeniran, “NYSC At 46: Its Successes, Challenges” Independent. June 5, 2019.60
A. Oyeniran,  “NYSC At  46: Its Successes, Challenges”  Independent. June 5,  2019.61   
Oral Interview with Victoria Ogwuche, Civil Servant,  40, Makurdi, 7/9/2020.62   
Oral Interview with Victoria Ogwuche, Civil Servant,  40, Makurdi, 7/9/2020.63   
Oral Interview with Victoria Ogwuche, Civil Servant,  40, Makurdi, 7/9/2020.
THE TRANSMUTING CHALLENGES OF THE NYSC SCHEME 665
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Since insecurity has emerged and remained a notorious 
challenge confronting the scheme, the authorities of NYSC have 
consistently taken innovative steps in the direction of ensuring 
the safety of corps members wherever they are serving in the 
country. In the experience of Benue State, Ogwuche notes that 
the scheme has collaborated with security agencies like the 
Nigeria Police Force (NPF), Directorate of State Service (DSS), 
the Nigerian Army and other security agencies in ensuring the 
safety of corps members; and further indicates that the safety of 
corps members was guaranteed following communal conflicts 
in Okpokwu Local Government Area as a result of the prompt 64 
response of the Nigerian Police Force. At the national level, a 
Distress Call Centre (DCC) was commissioned in February, 2012 
by the Federal Government and domiciled in the National 65 
Directorate Headquarters of the NYSC. The Centre is equipped 
with communication facilities that are manned 24 hours daily to 
ensure a timely and well-coordinated response to distress calls 
from Corps members who find themselves in a distressed 
situation, through contact with the nearest offices of security 
agencies and other key stakeholders at critical times in addition 
to the production of Security Tips booklets issued to all serving 66 
corps members. The document contains easily digestible 
security tips, which help to keep them off from all security-
related dangers.
To tackle the problem of post-service unemployment, the 
NYSC authorities introduced the Skills Acquisition and 
Entrepreneurship Development Programme (SAED) in 2012. 
Since the introduction of SAED into the service scheme as a 
yearly exercise, SAED has proved impactful. The programme is 
designed to give corps members the opportunity to learn 
vocational skills of their choice right from the orientation camp 
and throughout the service year, to prepare them for self-
employment and self-reliance at the end of their mandatory 
64 
Oral Interview with Victoria Ogwuche, Civil Servant, 40, Makurdi, 7/9/2020.65 
Oba, J., “Nigeria: Federal Government Commissions NYSC Distress Call Centre,” 
Leadership Newspper, February 21, 2012.66 
A. Oyeniran, “NYSC At 46: Its Successes, Challenges” Independent. June 5, 2019.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020666
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

67 
national service. Presently, corps members across the thirty-six 
states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory are 
exposed to vocational training at their orientation camps in 
Agro-allied, Automobile, Construction, Cosmetology, Culture 
and Tourism, Education, Environment, Film and Photography, 
Food Processing/Preservation, Horticulture and Landscaping, 
Information and Communication Technology and Power and 
Energy. SAED has also partnered with other government 
agencies like the Central Bank, Bank of Industry and other Non-
Governmental Organisations (NGOs) in ensuring that the 
68
mandate for which it was created is effectively articulated.
As part of the efforts to encourage corps members to embrace 
skills and entrepreneurship for self-reliance, the NYSC 
authorities launched a progamme tagged War Against Poverty 
(WAP) in October, 2009. The programme specifically seeks to 
empower corps members to become viable entrepreneurs in 
69 
agro-based and allied businesses. Through this progamme, 
interest-free loans are readily accessed by interested corps 
members ranging from N200,000 to N300,000 and repayable 
over 30 months for purposes of self-employment and wealth 
creation, eradication of extreme poverty and hunger, and 
boosting of agricultural productivity for national food security 
which are in tandem with the nation's Social Development Goals 
(SDGs). So far, over 5,000 corps members have been fully 
empowered and are doing well in their chosen careers as agro-
70 
entrepreneurs. Furthermore, the Scheme has, through the 
NYSC Foundation, given loans to existing corps members with 
their certificates as collateral security instrument to enable them 
engage in useful business ventures in order be self-reliant.
Apart from the introduction of SAED, the NYSC authorities, 
in line with the diversification calls of the Federal Republic of 
Nigeria, have ventured into agriculture and have reinvigorated 
67   
Oral Interview with Mrs.Emem Essien, Civil Servant, 50, Makurdi, 7/9/2020.68   
Oral Interview with Mrs.Emem Essien, Civil Servant, 50, Makurdi, 7/9/2020.69 
A. Oyeniran, “NYSC At 46: Its Successes, Challenges,” Independent. June 5, 2019.70 
A. Oyeniran, “NYSC At 46: Its Successes, Challenges” Independent. June 5, 2019.
THE TRANSMUTING CHALLENGES OF THE NYSC SCHEME 667
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

and upgraded its agricultural projects with the establishment of 
Integrated Farm Settlements in each of the six geopolitical zones 
of the country. These Farm settlements, equipped with modern 
farm implements and corps lodges, are operational in the FCT, 
71 
Bauchi, Kebbi and Oyo States. A number of corps members 
who served in these farms, as confirmed by an oral source, have 
taken up farming as a profession due to the practical experience 
they gained and are now contributing to the nation's objective of 
72
actualizing self-sufficiency in food production.
Since Community development Service projects is one of the 
cardinal objectives of the scheme, the NYSC authorities have, 
over time, carried out sensitization programmes to educate 
corps members about the importance of this programme and 
how to source finances in executing their identified community 
73 
projects. This has effectively discouraged female corps 
members from going into sexual relationships with men of 
influence with the aim of financing their community projects. In 
Benue State, at each orientation camp, special seminars and 
workshops are organized for prospective corps members on the 
thematic importance of community projects and how to finance 
them. This has led to the significant increase in the number of 
community development projects in the state by corps members. 
Then too, to check fraud, false age declaration and fake 
degrees, the leadership of the NYSC has fully embraced 
technology as a tool in its operations. Under the current 
dispensation for instance, there is a zero tolerancce on fake 
degrees and certificates, false age declaration and general 
misconduct. Today, it is practically impossible to find fake corps 
members because of the full deployment of modern 
technologies in the operatons of the Directorate. It is also to the 
credit of the leadership of the NYSC scheme that our corps 
members are alive to their responsibilities of serving the nation 
with dignity. 
71 
A. Oyeniran, “NYSC At 46: Its Successes, Challenges” Independent. June 5, 2019.72 
Oral Interview with Cletus Apav, Public Servant, 53, Makurdi, 9/9/2020.73 
Oral Interview with Victoria Ogwuche, Civil Servant, 40, Makurdi, 7/9/2020.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020668
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Conclusion
Since its creation about 47 years ago, the NYSC scheme has fared 
modestly well in articulating and propagating some of the 
objectives for which it was created. Since its creation, the scheme 
has continued to function as the bridge for young men and 
women in the country to converge, associate and cross-ventilate 
ideas that are meant to enhance and promote nation building. 
This has offered a veritable platform for social and cultural 
socialisation among the lettered youths of Nigeria from different 
historical, social, cultural, economic and geographical 
experiences. The cross- cultural interaction platform offered by 
the scheme has contributed significantly to the enhancement of 
the general knowledge among Nigerian graduates about the 
cultural and historical peculiarities of the various peoples of the 
country. The target of this convergence is helmed in the desire to 
achieve national integration for national development. 
However, it goes without saying that the NYSC scheme has not 
been able to achieve the desired level of national integration that 
was envisaged at the time of its conception and establishment. 
The circumstances that have stood in the way of achieving the 
height of national integration embedded in the philosophy of the 
scheme are encapsulated in a multiplicity of transmuting 
challenges. These challenges have been identified and dissected 
in this disquisition. It is clear that the security challenge occupies 
a strategic place in the circle of other challenges. The reasons for 
this reality are not far-fetched. The internal security architecture 
of the entire Nigerian state is in a fundamental crisis with severe 
consequences for the survivability of the country's sovereignty. 
The issues relating to the internal security crisis of the country 
apparently manifest the incapacity of the Nigerian state in 
managing its security challenges; and since the NYSC scheme is 
a microcosm of the Nigerian system, it takes a little imagination 
THE TRANSMUTING CHALLENGES OF THE NYSC SCHEME 669
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

to conclude that the security challenge will continue to hold 
down the functionality of the NYSC scheme until when the 
country will be able to adequately address its internal security 
problematic.It is recognised that deliberate steps have been 
taken by NYSC authorities and other relevant critical 
stakeholders in addressing the multifarious challenges that 
confront the functionality and service delivery of the scheme. 
The calculated steps taken by the NYSC authorities and other 
relevant critical stakeholders in dealing with the kaleidoscopic 
phenomenon of internal security crisis as it affects the scheme 
have yielded modest outcomes in the context of the safety of 
serving corps members. In a country where there is an 
increasingly rising wave of terrorism, armed banditry, 
kidnapping, armed robbery, cyber-crime, ethno-religious 
conflicts, land disputes and various other forms of unhealthy 
atmosphere, it is quite difficult to expect much from a national 
integration scheme. The experience of the NYSC scheme in 
Nigeria generally indicates that it has tried as an insstitutions, 
and we are therefore making progress.
References
I. Primary Sources:
1. Focus Group Discussion with Corps Members at Makurdi 
Local Government Area Secretariat, Makurdi, 10/9/2020.
2. Focus Group Discussion with Corps Members at NYSC 
Permanent Orientation Camp, Wannune, Tarka Local 
Government Area of Benue State, 10/9/2020.
3. Oral Interview with Kelvin Okafor, Business Owner, 45, 
Gboko, 4/8/2020.
4. Oral Interview with Rtd. Sergeant Anihundu Bako, World 
War II Veteran, 102, Mbaazagel Council Ward, Buruku 
LGA, Benue State, 15/8/2020.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020670
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

5. Oral interview with Terwase Orban, Civil Servant, 43, 
Makurdi, 31/8/2020.
6. Oral Interview with Desmond Kpamdue, Former Corps 
Member, 33, Anyiin, Logo LGA, Benue State, 5/9/2020.
7. Oral Interview with Alfred Tyopav, Political Party 
Chieftain, 49, Katsina-Ala, Benue State, 6/9/2020.8.
Oral Interview with Constant Odoh, Civil Servant, 48, 
Makurdi, 7/9/2020.
9. Oral Interview with Cletus Apav, Public Servant, 53, 
Makurdi, 9/9/2020.
10. Oral Interview with Ayodele Samuel, Corps Member, 27, 
Makurdi, 10/9/2020.
11. Oral Interview with Mrs. Comfort M. Orngu, Civil 
Servant, 47, Makurdi, 10/9/2020.
12. Oral Interview with Victoria Ogwuche, Civil Servant, 40, 
Makurdi, 7/9/2020.
13. Oral Interview with Monday Audu, Civil Servant, 38, 
Makurdi, 7/9/2020.
14. Oral Interview with Mrs. Emem Essien, Civil Servant, 50, 
Makurdi, 7/9/2020.
15. Oral Interview with Tyolumun Upaa, Civil Servant, 50, 
Wannune, Tarka LGA, Benue State, 10/9/2020.
16. Oral Interview with Joy Chinemerem Anufogo, former 
corps member, 32, Abuja, 28/10/2020.
ii. Secondary Sources:
Books, Book Chapters and Journal Publications
Adeoti, Y.F. and O. O. Olaewe, O.O., (2009), “Problems and 
Counseling Needs of Corps Members,” African Research 
Review, Vol. 3 (1), p.500.
Aderonmu, J.A., (2013), “Civil Society and 2011 Elections in 
Nigeria,” in Egwemi, V., (ed), Issues in the 2011 General 
THE TRANSMUTING CHALLENGES OF THE NYSC SCHEME 671
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Elections in Nigeria, Ibadan, Sam-Adex Printers.
Adesote, S.A. and Falade, D.A. (2020), Distinct Comprehensive 
History for Senior Secondary Schools 1-3 , Ondo: Unique 
Mercy and Features Publisher.
Ajibo, H., et al ., (2018) “Dynamics of Farmers and Herdsmen 
Conflict in Nigeria: Implication to Social Work Policy 
Intervention,” International Journal of Humanities and 
SocialScience, Vol. 8, No. 7, p. 157.
Azaigba, K.T. (2017), “Herders and Farmers Conflict in Central 
Nigeria: A Review of Contending Antidotes,” Kaduna 
Journal of Humanities, Vol. 1, No. 3, p. 191.
Azaigba, K.T., (2017), “The Historicity of Electoral Violence in 
Nigeria” in Tsuwa, J.T. and Ikpanor, E.T., (eds), The 2015 
General Elections in Nigeria: Emerging Issues , Abuja, 
Donafrique Publishers.
Diamond, L., (1988), Class, Ethnicity and Democracy in Nigeria: The 
Failure of the First Republic, London, Palgrave.
Ikime, O., (2006), History, The Historian and the Nation: The Voice of 
a Nigerian Historian , Ibadan, Heinemann Educational 
Books.
Mgbada, C.O., (2018) “The Igbo Struggle for Political 
Accommodation in Nigeria Since 1970: Issues, Problems 
and Prospects,” Okonkwo, U.U., et el (eds), History, Africa 
and Development: Festschrift in Honour of Professor U. D. 
Anyanwu, Vol. 1. Morrisville, Lulu Press.
Okolo, A. (1999) “The Nigerian Census: Problems and 
Prospects,”
The American Statistician, Vol.53, No.4 (November).
Orngu, C.S., (2010), A Reconstruction of Nigeria's National Security 
Discourse for Nation Building, Makurdi, Bookmakers.
Orngu, C.S., (2014), Socio-Political Conflicts and Nigeria's External 
Relations, 1953-2005, Lagos, Bahiti and Dalila.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020672
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Orngu, C.S., (2018) “Public University System in Nigeria: Some 
Conceptual and Historical Discourses,” in Orngu, C.S. and 
Wuam, T., (eds), Public University Governance in Nigeria: A 
Festschrift, Professor Msugh Moses Kembe, Lagos : 
Cosmopolitan Book Services.
Orngu, C.S. and Kertyo, P.M., (2018) “The Military and 
Economic Diplomacy of the Nigerian State: The Ibrahim 
Babangida Years in Perspective” Kaduna Journal of 
Humanities, Vol. 2, Number 1, p. 190.
Zolberg, A., (1970), “Patterns of Nation Building,” in Paden, 
J.N.and Soja, E.W., (eds), The African Experience, Vol. 1 
Essays, Evanston, North Western University Press.
iii. Newspaper Publications
Lawal, I. (2019), “Fishing out Fake Graduates in NYSC,” The 
Guardian, August 15, p.1.
Oluwakayode, A., (2018), “Has the NYSC Outlived Its 
Usefullness?” Vanguard, April 19.
Oba, J., (2012), “Nigeria: Federal Government Commissions 
NYSC Distress Call Centre,” Leadership, February 21.
Uwandu, E., (2018) “Federal Government Has Failed Us – 
Corps Members Use Funds for Job Creation,” Vanguard, 
April 19.
iv. Electronic Sources
Agbola, B., “Insecurity, Preferential Posting, Major Obstacles 
against NYSC—D-G” Premium Times. May 29, 2019, 
https:/
/www.premiumtimesng.com/news/more-news/332143- 
insecurity-preferential-posting-major/. Assessed 30/8/ 
2020.
Godwin, A.C., “Full Text of Governor Ortom's Speech During 
Buhari's visit to Benue,” Daily Post . 12 March 2018, 
THE TRANSMUTING CHALLENGES OF THE NYSC SCHEME 673
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

https:// www.dailypost.ng. Assessed 5/8/2020.
Oyeniran, A., “NYSC At 46: Its Success, Challenges'” 
I n d e p e n d e n t ,  J u n e  5 ,  2 0 1 9 ,  
https://www.independendent.ng/nysc-at-46- its-
successes-challenges/.Assessed 30/8/2020.
“Sharia Implementation in Northern Nigeria After 15 Years” 
https:/
/www.qeh.ox.ac.uk/content/sharia-implementation- 
northern-nigeria-after-15-years. Assessed 3/9/2020.
Tukur, S. and Lere, M., “Some NYSC Members Killed in Bauchi 
were PDP's IT Consultants—CPC Spokesman, Fasakin” 
Premium Times . https://www.premiumtimesng.com/ 
news/113299-some-nysc-members-killed-in-bauchi-
were- pdp-it-consultants/. Assessed 9/10/2020.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020674
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Chapter Twenty-One
ST 
THE NYSC BEYOND THE 21 CENTURY
Godwin O. Odeh 
Sokoto State University, 
Sokoto
Introduction
The idea of building a nation out of diverse ethnic groups has 
been the major challenge since the 1914 amalgamation of the 
Northern and Southern Protectorates that brought into existence 
the geo- political entity called Nigeria. This singular act of 
political engineering was motivated to maximise economic 
fortunes to the British Empire by reducing administrative costs 
of managing the vast colonial territory, Nigeria. Arising from 
this, no effort was made to deliberately create unity among the 
people of Nigeria, but rather imperial administrators, one after 
another, continued to promote division by the tactics of divide-
and –rule. It is against this backdrop that the political 
independence of 1960 failed to produce the desired nation, as the 
first post-colonial government and subsequent ones were 
unable to resolve issues of differences among Nigerian ethnic 
nationalities. These colonially inherited challenges were to lead 
to series of coup and counter coups, which resulted in the 
Nigerian civil war between 1967 and 1970. It was during the war 
that it became clear that keeping Nigeria one would require 
physical and psychological orientation and re-orientation. 
Consequently, in the post war era, the Federal Government 
launched the national policy of Reconciliation, Rehabilitation 
and Reconstruction that was targeted at promoting national 
unity to forestall divisive tendencies that might lead to another 1
bloody war . The NYSC scheme founded in 1973 was an offshoot 
1
Luke Aneke, Mazi S. Ohuabuna, Mazi O. Thompson, (eds), The Nigerian 1966 Coup and 
Biafra: Myths and Realities, Alaigbo Development Foundation (ADF) publication, Enugu: 
Fourth Dimension, 2018, pp. 73-74.
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

of this programme of national unity and reconciliation though 
its history antedates the policy.
In its formative years, the NYSC was considered an 
instrument of nation building; therefore, its operation was 
perceived to be limited to Nigeria. However, decades after its 
establishment, the NYSC is known to have begun to inspire 
other nations and to draw international recognition. Instances of 2
these were the hosting of the Global Youth Conference in 1994 , 
participations in global conferences of National Youth Service 
and the epic role Nigeria played through the Technical Aid 
Corps in the establishment of The Gambia National Youth 
Service Scheme (GNYSS) in 1996, among others. Against the 
backdrop of the national and international attention the scheme 
has continued to draw despites several challenges, this 
prospects the fortunes of the NYSC the future of the NYSC. The 
chapter is structured into seven sections, inccluding the 
introduction and the conclusion.
Conceptual Clarifications and Theoretical Frameworks
Youth is one concept that has refused to be tied to a single 
definition. As a result, few conceptions would be taken. Taiwo 
considered the legal, biological, and sociological view of the 
concept and argues that seeing youth as the period between the 3 
ages of 12 and 20 is misleading. To him, youth is the ages 
between adolescence and young adult, which straddles the time 
young people are in school or have graduated, but are yet to 
enjoy full status, without access to all family, professional and 4 
political rights. This definition, though rewarding, is fraught 
with crises of age bracket which is very fundamental to the 
2
Uche Agu, NYSC and Nigerian Unity: A Critical Appraisal. (Enugu: Agene Publishers, 
1995), pp.102-103. Related information on international engagement of the Scheme is 
also found in NYSC Archives, TX/RX NO: 1373, A A. Kaka, “Minutes of the Meeting on 
Planned Collaboration between NYSC and United Nations Volunteers (UNV)”, th 
National Directorate Headquarters Yakubu Gowon House, Maitama, Abuja.19 August, 
1996.3
O O, Taiwo, “Globalization, Society and Culture: Wither Nigerian Youths” in Nigeria and 
Globalization: Discourses on Identity Politics and Social Conflict, Lagos: Centre for Black and 
African Arts and Civilization (CBAAC) National Theatre, 2004, 246-248.4 
Ibid.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020676
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

definition of the understading of youth in the context of national 
mobilisation for service. The pegging of franchise right at age 18 
by the Nigerian Constitution did not solve the problem too; 
rather, it compounded it as the bracket is left unclosed. Be that as 
it may, section 2 (1) of the NYSC enabling Act puts the bracket in 
its stipulation that a person shall not be called to serve in the 
Service Corps if at the date of graduation he/she is over the age 5 
of thirty. This appears consistent with the United Nations' view, 
which defines youth as anybody between adolescent ages of 6
twenty five.
However, given the elastic nature of the concept, several 
developing countries expanded the age to thirty five and even 
more. Thus, age target for national service varies from country to 
country. The Gambia National Youth Service Scheme for 
instance targets youths between the ages of seventeen to thirty 7 
five, while the Zambia National Youth Policy defines youth as a 8 
male or female person between the age of 15 and 25 years. It 
could be inferred then that within the context of NYSC, youth is 
defined as graduates between the ages 18 and 30, though it is 
difficult to have a graduate of 18 years old in Nigeria given the 
entry qualification into Nigerian schools and universities.
Michael Sherraden, in Odeh, views national service as:
an organised period of substantial “engagement” and 
“contribution” to local, national, or world community, 
recognised and valued by society, with minimal 9 
monetary compensation to the participant.
5
NYSC Decree. Retrieved from, https://www.nysc.gov.ng.6
National Youth Service Corps Report of the Committee to Draft Terms of Bilateral 
Agreement between the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and Countries Requesting for th 
Technical Assistance Submitted to the Director General, Brig.Gen. S M. Dule, Fss, Mss, 19
January, 1999. The report was a response to Circular NYSC/DG/153/S.9/SEC/ dated 08 
Dec., 1998.7 st 
E D.Mendy, The Gambia National Youth Service Scheme Annual Report , 31 December,2017. 
Office of the Executive Director, The Gambia National Youth Service Hedaquaters, Opposite 
Friendship Hotel, Bakau, The Gambia.8
Republic of Zambia National Youth Policy, Lusaka, Zambia, 1994, p.3.NYSC Archives, File No. 
GC/94/ PP/23, National Directorate Headquarters, Yakubu Gowon House Maitama, Abuja.9 
G O.Odeh, “NYSC's Engagement in the Development of Abuja, 1982-2011", in Rima 
International Journal of Historical Studies:A publication of the Department of History, Faculty of 
Arts and Social Sciences, Sokoto State University, Sokoto, (1)2, 2018, p.142.
ST 
THE NYSC BEYOND THE 21 CENTURY 677
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Donald Eberly defines National Service simply as,a way to make 
military draft more equitable;a way to ease the problem of youth 
employment;citizen responsibility; anda form of experiential 10
education.
In analyzing the future of the NYSC, we would align our 
analysis with those of William James, John Dewy and 
Rosenstock-Huessy. The trio laid the foundation for the ideas of 
national service. In his Moral Equivalent of War speech in 1906, 
William James proposed military conscription, instead of 
conscription of the entire youth population, for constructive 
labour for a short duration of time, against the backdrop of 11 
enormous energy young people possesses. The application of 
the conscription is to channel youthful energy from destructive 
ventures such gangsterism and hooliganism, to productive 
engagements such as mining, fishing and even faming. William 
Shakespeare and the famous Italian Mazzini appear to have a 
shared view of youthful age that is consistent with William 
James'. Against the background of the valour of youth, 
Shakespeare, cited in Chikendu, opines thus:
…Then a soldier, (i.e the youth), full of strange oaths, 
and bearded like the pard. Jealous in honour, sudden 
and quick in quarrel, seeking the bubble reputation. 12
Even in the cannon's mouth.
Mazzini, in Odeh, buttresses this in his assertion:
Place the youth at the head of insurgent multitude; you 
know not the secret of the power hidden in those 
youthful hearts nor the magic influence exercised on 
10 th 
D J. Eberly, The Changing Face of National Service in the 20 Century. A Paper presented at the 
Second Global Conference on National Youth  Service, Abuja, Nigeria, October, 10-14, 1994,
p.2.   S A. Sofoluwe, National Youth Service Corps: Challenges and Prospects. A paper presented th 
at the Two-Week Orientation Course for the 5 Batch of the Technical Aid Corps Volunteers 
at the Cultural Centre, Calabar, Cross River State, Monday, October 3, 1994, 6. D J. Eberly, th 
The Changing Face of National Service in the 20 Century . A Paper presented at the Second 
Global Conference on National Youth Service, Abuja, Nigeria, October, 10-14, 1994, p. 7.11 th   
. D J. Eberly, The Changing Face of National Service in the 20 Century.p.2.12     
P N.  Chikendu, Imperialism and Nationalism, Enugu: Academic Publishing, 2004, p.7
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020678
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

the masses by the voice of the youth. You find among 13
the youth a host of apostles of the new religion.
Given the limitless potential inherent in youths, Mazzini in his 
writings and speeches, appealed to them to enter in their 
structure, the struggle for the unification of Italy and the fight to 
rescue it from the clutch of foreign domination. To William 
James, military training and orientation would knock out or 
eliminate elements of childishness in the youths and transforms 
them to healthier citizens who would be able to fight for the 
course of the society. This sense of discipline may be what 
informed and formed the paramilitary packages in the NYSC's 
three weeks orientation/camping period and farming 
operations of the scheme. More so, some national services are 
military – oriented, and evolved from it. After all, the NYSC is 
one of the most enduring legacies of the Nigerian military. James 
Dewy advocates Service- Leaning that is anchored on practical 14 
experiences and orientation. This may have found expression 
in the activities of the NYSC in the area of teaching instruction 
package during orientation camp, deployment of corps 
members to schools, Community Development Services and the 
Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development that took th 15 
off fully on the 29 March, 2012. Instances of similar schemes 
elsewhere completely devoted to skills acquisitions, handwork 
and what seems like internships and apprenticeships abound to 
buttresses Dewey's proposition.Thirdly, is the idea of National 
Service as a way of strengthening ties among the people of the 16 
world proposed by Rosenstock-Huessy. He proposed civilian 
youth service for Germany in 1912 and advocates that team of 
young people work everywhere in the world for national 
productivity and global wellness. Though the entire idea of 
national service appears local or national in outlook, the 
13 
G O.Odeh, NYSC Scheme and the task of Nation Building in Nigeria: Abuja Experience, 1983- 
2010. First Draft of MA Dissertation, Department of History Benue State University, 
Makurdi, 2012, p. 57.14 th 
. D J. Eberly, The Changing Face of National Service in the 20 Century. p.2.15 th   
National Youth Service Corps Year Book, 40 Anniversary Commemorative Edition, pp.141-145.16 th   
. D J. Eberly, The Changing Face of National Service in the 20 Century.p.2.
ST 
THE NYSC BEYOND THE 21 CENTURY 679
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

emergence of overseas service corps, global interactions of 
youth organisations in form of visits, conferences, technical 
assistance and the NYSC International Volunteers, among 17 
others, buttress the current of his argument. More importantly, 
national youth service schemes are institutions in states that 
naturally have intercourse with others underpinned by doctrine 
of interdependentness of states. From the foregoing, 
contextualising the debate within the frameworks of military 
exigencies, service-learning and international intercourse as 
espoused by William James, John Dewey and Rosenstock-
Huessy should be consistent with the direction of the chapter.
The NYSC Beyond Nigeria
It may be recalled that the National Youth Service Corps was nd 
established by Decree No. 24 of 22 May 1973, which was th 
rescinded by Decree No. 51 of 16 June 1993, afterwards 
amended as NYSC ACT CAP N84 Laws of the Federation of 18 
Nigeria 2004. The pioneer corps members were two thousand, 
three hundred and forty six (2,346) graduates of the first 
generation universities, in the 1972/1973 academic 
17 
NYSC participated in the global youth conferences from 1992 to 2000. In short, in 1978, 
Adebanjo Akinnagbagbe, a member staff of the NYSC scheme was delegated to attend 
the first world youth congress in Havana, Cuba. It was through its assistance that the 
Gambia National youth Service was founded in 1996. More so, several African countries 
such as Liberia, Sierra lone, among others, have approached the NYSC to help them 
establish a similar scheme like Nigeria's model. For Detail see S A.D.Olisa, For Hon. 
Minister of Foreign Affairs, Attention: Alhaji M. Bulama; Re-Request for Technical Exports to 
Help Run The Gambia National Youth Service Scheme, (Directorate of Technical Aid Corps, th 
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Abuja), Ref. No: TAC/RC/002/V, 7 December, 1995, p.1. 
Pius Ross Imienwarin, for Director General , Press Release : Pioneer NYSC Member nd 
Appointed Administrator of Gambia Youth Service, Ref: NYSC/ NDHE/PRD/T.2, 2
February, 1996, Enegwea Personal File and record.Gregory Kas Enegwea, 
“Appointment of Technical Experts to Help Run The Gambia National Youth Service 
Scheme:- Request for a Return Ticket and Estacode, for Impending Preliminary 
Assignment in The Gambia”,19 December,1995, pp.1-3,( Abuja: Gregory Kas Enegwea th 
Personal File), National Youth Service Corps Year Book, 40 Anniversary Commemorative 
Edition, pp.100-102.18    
G O Odeh, The National Youth Service Scheme and the Challenge of Nation Building in 
Nigeria (1973-2008) , Abuja: Olowu Publishers, 2009, pp.24-25. National Youth Service th 
Corps Year Book, 40 Anniversary Commemorative Edition , (Abuja: NYSC National 
Directorate Headquarters, 2013), 17. NYSC Sokoto State Batch “B” Orientation Programme th th 
and Service Guide, Thursday 24 November-Wednesday 14 December 2016, p.10.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020680
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

19
session. International engagements of the NYSC over the years 
have taken the form of official visits/ delegation, conferences, 
technical support and volunteering. Promoting world peace and 
international engagement was not the focus of national youth 
services until the United Nations provoked attention towards 
“Development participation and peace” in 1985 during the 
international year of the youth and the consequent declaration of 20 
1986 as international year of peace. Since then it appears “ 
International Youth Day” has come to stay as 12 August. 2019 
was as well declared, with the population of about 1.2 billion 21 
young people across the world expected to have celebrated. In 
short, a review of the founding objectives the NYSC reveals that 
its operations and similar schemes are essentially national, and 22 
not international. However, as an institution of a state that 
interacts with other states in Africa, America, Asia and Europe, it 
was internationally exposed few years after its establishment. 
Thus, years after its vision/mission statement began to read: “To 23 
be the leading light of youth organisation in Africa”. The 
exposure and involvements are as follows: First, in 1978, 
Adebanjo Akinnagbagbe, a member staff of the NYSC was 
delegated to attend the first world youth congress in Havana, 24 
Cuba. Consequently, Col. S.K. Omojukun, the Director General 
(DG) of the scheme, upon invitation, visited Tanzania and other 
19 th 
National Youth Service Corps Year Book, 40 Anniversary Commemorative Edition , p.16. G 
O.Odeh, “Politics of Appointment of Vice Chancellor in Nigerian States Universities: The 
Experience of Professor Nuhu O. Yaqub, OFR, 2012-2017” in History, Globalization & 
Relations in Africa: Festschrift in Honour of Okpeh O. Okpeh, Jnr, P I.Ukase, S I. Ugbegili, B 
J.Audu, E T. Ikpanor (eds,), Lagos: Integrity Publishers, 2018, p.771.20   
A O.Sanda, Youth Service and World Peace, p.1.21
International Youth Day , 12 August, 2019: UN Department of Economic and Social 
Affairs, https://www.un.org.22 
G O Odeh, The National Youth Service Scheme and the Challenge of Nation Building in Nigeria th 
(1973-2008),14-17. National Youth Service Corps Year Book, 40 Anniversary Commemorative 
Edition, pp. 17-18.23 
Mission Statement written on the flex displayed at the Ground Floor, the NYSC National 
Directorate Headquarters, Yakubu Gowon House, Maitama Abua. The line of mission 
statement was not there, though Nigeria maintained conspicuous and colossus place in 
the affairs of Africa. It is no doubt an indication of international aspiration of the scheme.24 th 
NYSC Year Book: 25 Anniversary, 1973-1998 (Abuja: Publication of the NYSC National 
DirectorateHeadquarters,1998), p. 174.
ST 
THE NYSC BEYOND THE 21 CENTURY 681
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

East African states to assess the activities of national youth 25 
services at about the same period.
In 1985, the NYSC was among the youth organisations that 
participated in the international forum for youth experts held in 
South Korea on the project titled, SAEL (New) MAUL (Village 
Community) UNDONG (Movement). The project focuses on the 
following among, others:
a. bringing together people to construct better, richer and 
stronger nation;
b. striking a balanced growth between the industrialised 
urban areas and purely farming villages; and,
c. popular mobilisation of the populace for self-reliance, 26
diligence at work and cooperation.
The South Korea project may have given serious impetus to 
the Community Development Service (CDS) programme of 
NYSC. The scale of the pre-1990s international fora attended by 
delegates of the Scheme were not as global in terms of 
deliberations, magnitude and international linkages compare to 
events inaugurated by the first global youth conference of 1992 
held in the United States.
The First Global Conference on National Youth Service held th st 
in Racine, Wisconsin, USA from 18 to 21 June 1992 remained a 
watershed in the history of NYSC. The theme of the epic 
conference is “National Youth Service: A Global Perspective” . 
The conference stresses the need for cooperation among national 
youth services across the globe. This was what Rosenstock-
Huessy of Germany prophesied decades earlier. NYSC's 
delegates to the conference were Major General Hafiz B. 
Momoh, the then Director- General of the Scheme, Gregory Kas 
Enegwea (now an Emeritus of National Youth Service and Mr. 27 
E.S. Essien. The following fourteen countries attended the 
25   th   
NYSC Year Book: 25 Anniversary, 1973-1998, p.174.26 th   
NYSC Year Book: 25 Anniversary …, p.174.27 
G O. Odeh, Nigeria NYSC's Role in the Founding of The Gambian National Youth Service, 
1996- 2004 , A PhD Dissertation Submitted to the Department of History and 
International Studies, Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, 2019, p.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020676
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

conference, namely; Botswana, Canada, China, Costa Rica, 
France, Nigeria, Papua New Guinea, The Netherlands, Trinidad 
and Tobago, India, United Kingdom, United States of America 28 
and Zimbabwe. It was at this conference NYSC was given the 29
responsibility to hold the second edition in1994.
Consequently, the second Global Conference of the National th 
Youth Service was held in Abuja, Nigeria, between 10 and 15th, 
October, 1994. The theme of the conference is “Linking Youth 30 
Service for Global Understanding”. About ninety-four papers 
delivered at the conference, deliberated on the following core 
areas of youth development:
a. Youth service and nation building;
b. Youth service and human heritage;
c. Youth service and world peace;
d. Youth service: A Social Action Agenda; and 31
e. Youth service and international cooperation.
NYSC delegates were led by Soyemi A. Sofoluwe, the then 
Director General of the scheme. The members of the delegate 
include Departmental Directors, past Director-Generals and 
several collaborating agencies as observers. The United Nations 
Development Programme (UNDP) and the United Nations 
Educational Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) 
were represented. The following countries attended the 
conference; Algeria, Benin, Ethiopia, Fiji, France, Gabon, The 
Gambia, Ghana, Germany, India, Indonesia, Italy, Liberia, 
Papua New Guinea, Mali, Nigeria (the host), USA, Sierra Leone, 
United Kingdom, South Africa, Zambia and Zimbabwe. At the 
28 
Gregory Kas Enegwea, interview.29 
For detail of the 1992 and 1994 conferences, see the Circular on 1994 Global Youth 
Conference and 1994 Global Youth Conference Communiqué.30
S A. Sofoluwe, Circular, 1994 Global Conference on National Youth Service, th 
NYSC/DG/153/ 5.9/Sec/Vol.VI/391, 20 July, 1994,2.(G K. Enegwea personal files and 
record).Yakubu Gowon, “Linking Youth Services with Global Understanding”: Keynote nd 
Speech Delivered at the Opening ceremony of the 2 Global Conference on National th 
Youth Service , Abuja, 11 October, 1994, p.7.31 
Nigel Watt, Conference Communiqué –Towards Global Youth Service1994, (NYSC Archive, 
National Directorate Headquarters, Abuja: GC/94/ 21), p.1.
ST 
THE NYSC BEYOND THE 21 CENTURY 683
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

conference countries without a standing national youth service 
scheme were mandated to do so, and bilateral and multilateral 
cooperation among youth service schemes at global and 32 
regional levels was encouraged. This again re-echoes 
Rosenstock-Huessy of Germany proposition. It was in Abuja, 
Papua New Guinea volunteered to host the Third Global 
Conference scheduled for 1996. The success of the conference 
fired Gambia's confidence in the NYSC, which consummated in 
the founding of the GNYSS.
The Papua New Guinea's concourse which was the Third th th 
Edition was held at Port Moresby, between 14 and 18 October, 
1996. The theme of the conference was “Global Idea for Local 
Action”. The sub-themes were:
a. National youth service and global peace and 
understanding;
b. National youth service and environment;
c. National youth service and education;
d. National youth service and healthy drugs and substance 
abuse;
e. National youth service and employment and enterprise;
f. Participation of young people in management of the NYSC 
programme;
g. National youth service for nation building; and,
h. The Role of UNESCO in national youth service 33
programme.
The conference adopted the Abuja resolution on the 
establishment of an International Association of National Youth 
Service Scheme; probably to enhance cooperation of member- 
nations in dealing with youth-related problems in the twentieth 
century. The then Director General of the Scheme, Colonel S.M. 
Dule and Abba Ahmed Tanko represented Nigeria. There was a 
sharp decline in the number of participants from twenty-three to 
32 
Watt, Conference Communiqué…, 1-2. Sani Abacha, Address, Opening Ceremony of the 
Second Global Conference on National Youth Service, held in Abuja, Tuesday, 11 th  
October, 1994, 3. Gowon, “LinkingYouth…”7. NYSC Year Book: 25 Anniversary…p.176.33   th   
NYSC Year Book:25 Anniversary …p.176.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020684
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

sixteen. Participants included Australia, Ghana, Cook Islands, 
Nigeria, India, Papua New Guinea (the host) Indonesia, Israel, 
Solomon Islands, New Zealand, Kiribati, New Caledonia, South 
Africa, USA, United Kingdom and Zambia. The coordination 
committee for International Voluntary Service at UNESCO in 
Paris, France, and the National Clearing House for youth 
studies, Australia, were in attendance too. The next conference 
was scheduled for London, United Kingdom in 1998.
Between 18 and 21June, 1998, the Fourth Global Conference 
was held at Windsor Castle, London, United Kingdom. The st 
theme of the conference was “National Youth Service in the 21
Century”. Countries that attended the conference were: 
Argentina, Australia, Botswana, China, France, The Gambia, 
Germany, Ghana, Greece, India, Israel, Italy, Nigeria, Papua 
New Guinea, Portugal, Russia, South Africa, Spain, United 
States of America, United Kingdom (the host) and Zambian. The 
NYSC Director General, Brigadier General S.M. Dule, Adebanjo 
Akinnigbagbe, Emmanuel Ochim and an ex corps member, Sani 34
Garba represented Nigeria and the scheme. In the year 2000, 
Nigeria participated at the Fifth Global conference held in Israel. 
Brigadier-General Walter Oki (Rtd), the former Chief Executive 35
of the NYSC led the Nigerian delegates. The conference was a 
watershed as it was the first of its kind in the twenty first century. 
Consequently, it was anticipated that the next editions of the 
conference would be held in 2002, 2004, and even thereafter. 
However, it appears the biennial global conference of the 
national youth service were not held in the scheduled years 2002 36 
and 2004 as available evidence would have one believe.
Apart from conferences and visits, another area in NYSC 
34 th th   
NYSC Year Book: Book: 25 Anniversary…177. NYSC Year Book, 4 Edition, p.241.35 th   
NYSC Year Book, 4 Edition , p.241.36 th 
G K. Enegwea, Interview. NYSC Year Book, 4 Edition should have contained data on 
the 2002 and 2004 NYS Biennial Conference if they were held given the time it was 
published in the year 2008. However, it did not. Many prominent NYSC Administrators 
engaged on the discourse about the possibilities of 2002 and 2004 conferences confessed 
that they were not sure it held. There is therefore lack of evidence on the holding of 2002 
and 2004 Global Conferences of National Youth Service.
ST 
THE NYSC BEYOND THE 21 CENTURY 685
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

external relations is technical support/ assistance. Several 
countries have solicited NYSC's hands to help establish their 
national youth service. One of such, which remained the most 
impressive engagement, was The Gambian experience (1996 – 
2004). Attempts by the Gambian Congress Alliance Democratic 
(DCA) in the 1960s to mobilise the youths in a manner of the NYS 
thereby putting the country on the road of Ghana and Nkruma 37 
progressive trajectory failed. However, hopes came when the 
fame of the Nigeria's NYSC reached The Gambia, following the 
development at the First Global Conference of 1992 in which 
Nigeria was to host the second edition in Abuja 1994. At the 
conference, The Gambian delegates were led by Mrs. Amina 
Faal-Sonko, the Minister of Youth, Sports and Culture at that 38 
time. It may be recalled that the communiqué of the 1994 
conference called on nations without a standing national youth 
service to do so. Sequel to the conference of 1994, the military 
government of The Gambia, in 1995, directed the Ministry of 
Youth and Sports to come up with a proposal for the 39 
establishment of a national youth programme. Prior to this, 
Zambia tried to establish a national youth service for The 
Gambia, but failed, because the Zambia's model had no 40 
comprehensive structure compared to Nigeria's NYSC.
Consequently, the Ministry of Youth, Sports and Culture set up a 
37 
H. Ceesay, “Small but Activist: The Gambia and West African Diplomacy, 1965-2015” 
in Tarikh: Fifty
Director of Planning/ and Deputy Permanent Secretary Ministry of Youth and Sports; th 
Interviewed at The Quadrangle, Banjul, 30 August, 2018. Musa Mbye was one of the 
past Executive Directors of the GNYSS. He was also among the first batch of fifty youths 
mobilised in 1990 in the failed attempt of national youth service in The Gambia.38
M. Mbye, Interview; Gregory Kas Enegwea, Interview; Victoria Ango, c.56 years, 
Deputy Director of NYSC; Interviewed at NYSC National Directorate Headquarters, th 
Abuja 5 September, 2018. Victoria Ango, was among the first batch of the NYSC experts 
deployed to The Gambia in 1996. Habibu O.Kurawa, c.56 years, Director General 
Services of the NYSC; Interviewed at NYSC National Directorate Headquarters, Abuja, th 
8 June, 2018.Habibu O. Kurawa, was among the second batch of the NYSC experts 
deployed to The Gambia in 1998.39 
M . Mbye, Interview.40 
M. Mbye, Interview; Emmanuel David Mendy, c.48 years, Executive Director, The th 
Gambia National Youth Service Scheme; Interviewed at Bakau, 27 August, 2018. 
Emmanuel David Mendy, is the Executive Director of GYNSS, G K. Enegwea, Interview.
years of Independence in Africa , (11)1, 2018, p.20. Musa Mbye, c.50 years, 
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020686
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

task force that embarked on a global tour in search of a model 
national youth service scheme, which the NYSC was adjudged 
the best. This made the Gambian authorities to put forward a 
request to the NYSC through the Directorate of Nigerian 
Technical Aid Corps in 1995. The requests may be categorised 
into two: training and personnel, which broadly include:short- 41
term attachments and study tours. The requests for personnel 
also specific demands; one administrator and five field 42 
coordinators. Upon approval, four batches of the NYSC experts 
were deployed to The Gambia between 1996 and 2004. The 
batches are as follows: the first batch (1996-1998) was made up of 
six NYSC experts: Gregory Kas Enegwea, retired, Mr. Anthony 
A. Enweonwu (of the blessed memory), Mr. E.E. Akinola, Mr. 
Nuhu S. Kwaghe, Solomon O. Ochim (now retired) and Mrs. 
Victoria Ango. Prior to the arrival of team member, Gregory Kas 
Enegwea, the leader of the group was sent to The Gambia for 
preliminary analysis of the nature and expectations of the 43 
scheme. The preliminary investigation gave birth to the GNYSS 
in its entirety. The summary of the exercise that gave birth to the 
GNYSS is captured by Ode as follows:
At the course of the preliminary studies, I discovered 
that Zambia had tried to help establish a national youth 
service scheme for The Gambia, but failed because 
theirs has no structure. So, what I did was to conceive a 
scheme modeled after Nigerian NYSC and to 
borrowed ideas from Ghana national youth service, 
41 
J.O. Olorunnisomo, A.M. Ozoma and B.N. Kobani, “An Interim Report of the Committee on 
Technical Cooperation between the Republic of The Gambia and the Federal Republic of 
Nigeria in the Field of National Youth Service Scheme”, submitted to the Director General, nd 
Colonel SoyemiA. Sofoluwe, Mss, Fss, Pscon Tuesday, 22 August, 1995, p.3.42 
Olorunnisomo, etal, “An Interim Report…”, p.4.43 
S A.D.Olisa, For Hon. Minister of Foreign Affairs, Attention: Alhaji M. Bulama; Re-Request for 
Technical Exports to Help Run The Gambia National Youth Service Scheme, (Directorate of Technical th 
Aid Corps, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Abuja), Ref. No: TAC/RC/002/V, 7 December, 1995, 
p.1. Pius Ross Imienwarin, for Director General, Press Release: Pioneer NYSC Member Appointed nd 
Administrator of Gambia Youth Service, Ref: NYSC/NDHE/PRD/T.2, 2 February, 1996, 
Enegwea Personal File and record. Gregory Kas Enegwea, “Appointment of Technical Experts 
to Help Run The Gambia National Youth Service Scheme: - Request for a Return Ticket and 
Estacode, for Impending Preliminary Assignment in The Gambia”,19 December,1995, pp.1-
3,(Abuja: Gregory Kas Enegwea Personal File).
ST 
THE NYSC BEYOND THE 21 CENTURY 687
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

(which has two sets; one for degree graduates and 
another for non-graduates) and TireloSetshaba of 
Lesotho (sic-should have been Botswana going by the 
name TireloSetshaba …Emphasis Added ). Thus, I set up a 
scheme for The Gambia focusing on school dropouts 
and WASSC holders, because when I and my team 
members went there, there was no university in The 
Gambia. As a result, the question of establishing a 
scheme that could mobilize graduate youths was out of 
the plan. More so, it is the young school dropouts 
which pose the greatest challenge to the society that 
The Gambian authorities want to engage in skill 44
acquisition through the GNYSS.
In the end, The Gambia National Youth Service Scheme was 
officially launched by the former chairman of the Armed Forces 
Provisional Ruling Council (AFPRC), Captain Yaya A.J.J. th 45 
Jammeh on Friday, 26 January, 1996. Towards the end of the 
tenure of the first batch, it was recommended that the number of 46 
officers be reduced. Thus, subsequent batches have fewer 
numbers.
The second batch deployed to The Gambia (1998-2000) was 
made up of three NYSC staff namely: Gabriel Ojo Alonge (now 
retired), Habibu O. Kurawa and the late Miss. Dorothy 47 
Ogbudu. Gabriel Ojo Alonge was the leader of the team. The 
third batch (2000-2002) was equally made up of three NYSC 
staff. The team was composed of: Miss. Funke Eniola O. 
44
G O. Odeh, Nigeria NYSC's Role in the Founding of The Gambian National Youth Service, 1996- 
2004, A PhD Dissertation Submitted to the Department of History and International 
Studies, Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, 2019, p.116.45 
G K. Enegwea, Interview. “The Gambia National Youth Service Scheme Programme 
Handbook for the Convocation Ceremony of the Fifth Batch of Corps Members and Official 
Launching of the National Youth Enterprise Revolving Fund by His Excellency Alhagie 
(Dr) Yahya A.J.J. Jammeh, President and Commander-in-Chief of the Republic of The th 
Gambia”, Wednesday, 25 July, 2001, at the Independence Stadium and Friendship Hotel, 
Bakau,(A Publication of Public Relations Department, GNYSS,2001),p. 8.46
V. Ango, c.56 years, Deputy Director of the NYSC; Interviewed at the NYSC National th 
Directorate Headquarters, Abuja 5 September, 2018. Victoria Ango was among the first 
batch of the NYSC experts deployed to The Gambia in 1996.47 
H. O.Kurawa, c.56 years, Director General Services of the NYSC; Interviewed at the NYSC th 
National Directorate Headquarters, Abuja, 8 June, 2018.Habibu O. Kurawa was among 
the second batch of the NYSC experts deployed to The Gambia in 1998.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020688
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

48 
Ambekemo, Chief Gregory Anya and Mr. Adamu Emmanuel.
The fourth batch (2002 - January, 2005), which was the last batch, 49 
was made up of: Mr. Aloysius O. Idoga and Miss. Tete Ukpong.
The last batch was more on consolidating mission; however, no 
stone was left unturned in the struggle for the survival and 
growth of the GNYSS. At the end of their tenure, it was believed 
the operations of the GNYSS have been under- studied by The 
Gambian nationals. The reader may be interested in pictures in 
plate 1 below:
Fig. 37: Pictures of the GNYSS Corps Members on Parade
Source: GNYSS Photo Archive, Office of Executive Director, Bakau. 
The Gambia
48 
Ambekemo E. Funke, c56 years, NYSC Cross river State Coordinator; Interviewed at th 
Calabar, 20 September, 2018. She was the leader of the third batch of the NYSC deployed 
to The Gambia between, 2000 and 2002. Greg F. Anyia, c.56 years, Assistant Director of 
the NYSC; Interviewed at the NYSC Orientation Camp, Keffi-Nasarawa State, 29th rd 
April, 2018. Press Release 3 Batch of Nigeria Technical Expert on National Youth Service 
Scheme (NYSS) Arrive The Gambia (Gregory F. Anyia Personal File). Sabastine Njie, “The 
Gambia National Youth Service Scheme Testimonial of Noble Service”,(Chief Gregory F. 
Anyia Personal File). Gregory F. Anyia, was among the third batch of the NYSC experts 
deployed to The Gambia in 2000.49
 Aloysius O. Idoga, c.56 years, Assistant Director of the NYSC; Interviewed at the NYSC th
National Directorate Headquarters, Abuja. 7 June, 2018. He was a member of the fourth 
and final batch of NYSC Experts Deployed to The Gambia in 2002.
ST 
THE NYSC BEYOND THE 21 CENTURY 689
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The pictures above reveals some resemblance between the 
NYSC and the GNYSS in the dressing code. (This shall be 
discussed later). In summary it would be said that the Nigerian 
Government contributed a great deal to the founding and 
development of the GNYSS. Nigeria was responsible for the 
payment of monthly stipends of about $USD 600 to experts and 
settling of allowances of $USD 500 to each of the fourteen 
member staff of the NYSC upon arrival in The Gambia between 50 
1996 and 2004. This means Nigeria's expenditure for the period 
stood at $USD 208, 600. The engagement in The Gambia 
displayed Nigeria's leadership role in Africa and the 
international prominence of the NYSC. Victoria Ango captures 
the international political climate and Nigeria's relationship 
with the West at the time vis-à-vis the NYSC extended support to 
The Gambia thus:
At the time of the Abacha regime when we went to 
The Gambia, the Western countries were not 
friendly with us, Nigeria. The Gambia and other 
African countries benefited from Nigeria greatly 
during that period. Vehicles filled with fuel from 
Nigeria were lifted to The Gambia by the late 
General Sani Abacha. Each time Abacha visited The 
Gambia, it was as if he is visiting one of the States in 
Nigeria. People came out in multitude to welcome 51
him.
50
G O. Odeh, Nigeria NYSC's Role in the Founding of The Gambian National Youth Service, 
1996- 2004 , p.121. “Federal Republic of Nigeria Technical Aid Corps Programme: 
Agreement between the Federal Government of Nigeria Aid Corps Volunteer”, (Banjul: 
Nigeria High Commission).51 
Victoria Ango, Interview.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020690
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Fig. 38: The GNYSS Corps Members on Parade at the Prade Ground in 
the Orientation Camp
It has also been argued that the hostility of the West made 
Nigeria to turn to Asia for friendship, while maintaining its 
warm relations with African states. The basis of such assistance 
according to Ambassador Oluwasegun Ibidapo-Obe arises from 52 
Nigeria's “material and manpower endowment”. The material 
side of the power is economic resources which The Gambia does 
not possess, while the manpower angle is the political power or 
influence of a state which The Gambia possesses. He further 
notes that:
Nigeria has been a donor country to The Gambia. 
What Nigeria wants is The Gambia continual votes 
for her candidate each time the need arises at the AU, 
ECOWAS, UN, ILO, among others, and this has 
been working to a greater extent. Through The 
Gambia, Nigeria should be able to secure votes from 
Senegal and even Mali since the two are close 
neighbours and have good relationship, because 53
politics is all about influence. 
52    
Oluwasegun Ibidapo-Obe, c.58 years, Nigeria Higher Commissioner; Interviewed at th 
Banjul, 30 August, 2018.53 
Oluwasegun Ibidapo-Obe, Interview.
ST 
THE NYSC BEYOND THE 21 CENTURY 691
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The above appears to have underscored the relevance of the 
doctrine of reciprocity, which The Gambia has been prosecuting. 
Finally, there is Voluntary Service Overseas (VSO) and other 
forms of international partnerships. First, along this line is the 
Nigerian Graduate Volunteer Programme (NGVP), a National 
Volunteering in partnership with VSO. The idea was first th 
initiated on 19 August, 1996 in the planned Collaboration 54 
between NYSC and the United Nations Volunteers (UNV). The 
aim was to address the constantly dwindling standard of 
education in schools through the use of ex-corps members and 
serving corps members. In the programme, teachers in 
Mathematics, English language and the Sciences are usually 
engaged. It started fully in 2009 with four schools in Nasarawa 
and six schools in Kwara. In the second year, the number of 
schools in Nasarawa increased to eight and in the third year, 
Kano State was brought on board. Officers of the prgramme 
have been to Ghana, Philippines, among other countries, and 
have also been involved in volunteer organisations such as UNV 
and Nigeria National Volunteer Service.(NNVS), football 55 
training and health campaign. Besides, the scheme has gone 
into partnering with the International Institute for Sustainable 
Development (IISD), John Hopkins University, Ea-net Africa, 
United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), United States 
Agency for International Development (USAID), with many 
others eager to key into the various development projects of the 56 
scheme. All these are targeted at ensuring the wellbeing of the 
youths and the society at large.
54 
NYSC Archives, TX/RX NO: 1373, Abiodun, A. Kaka,”Minutes of the Meeting on 
Planned Collaboration between NYSC and United Nations Volunteers (UNV)”,National th 
Directorate Headquarters Yakubu Gowon House, Maitama, Abuja.19 August, 1996.55 th   
National Youth Service Corps Year Book, 40 Anniversary… 97—102.56
G O.Odeh, The Gambia's NYSS Partnership with the International Organization for 
Migration (IOM): Lessons for Nigeria's NYSC Scheme in the Twenty first Century. A paper 
presented at the conference organised by the University of Texas at Austin, the Pan 
African University Press and the Chronicle on the theme Sweat is Invisible in the Rain: A 
Conference on Culture, Politics and Contemporary Issues in The Gambia held at Paradise Suite 
Hotel, 3 Paradise Beach Place, off Bertil Harding Highway (Kololi), Banjul,  The Gambia th th 
14 -15 December, 2019, pp.17-18.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020692
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

While the above is commendable, it is good that 
international engagements and partnerships are not just an 
orthodox one in the name of engagements and partnerships, but 
one with dividends and based on the reality of the Nigerian 
State, especially with regards to youth related challenges. From 
the foregoing, one sees that the pattern of the NYSC 
international engagement over the years has taken the form of 
official delegates and visits, conferences, technical support and 
international volunteering and partnerships. In the subsequent 
part of the chapter a comparative analysis of the NYSC and 
youth service elsewhere shall be done.
The NYSC and Other National Youth Services: Comparative 
Discourses
The strengths and significance of an institution is partly 
measured when put side by side with others. Thus, in what 
follows the NYSC is considered and compared with its 
counterparts in The Gambia, Ghana, Botswana South Africa, 
Zambia, Zimbabwe, Germany, United States, United Kingdom, 
Mexico, Indonesia, Costa Rica and other oversea services. 
Beginning with the GNYSS, we affirm that although the NYSC is 
its founding father, there are areas of similarities and differences 
between it and the NYSC. Essentially, the NYSC was a product 
of a post war reconstruction agenda to tone down ethnic and 
religious differences. As a scheme, it targets graduates of higher 
institutions of learning within the age limit of thirty years. The 
GNYSS, on the other hand, was solely established to engage 
youths, particularly those who have concluded Junior 
Secondary School (JSS), West African School Certificate 
Examination (WASCE), and school dropouts who spend most of 57 
their time in ghetto houses drinking Chinese tea called Ataya..
These categories of youths are highly susceptible to social ills 
such as unemployment, indiscipline, frustration and drug 
57
The Gambia National Youth Service Scheme: Brochure , (A publication of The Gambia 
National Youth Service, Fajara South Atlantic off Garba Jahumpa Roads Kanifing, Bakau 
The Gambia), n.d, p.4.
ST 
THE NYSC BEYOND THE 21 CENTURY 693
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

abuse. It may be interesting to note that as at 1996 when the 
GNYSS was founded there was no university in The Gambia, 
and so the idea of mobilising graduates was out of it. Although 
the aim, objectives and organisational structure of the NYSC and 
those of the GNYSS appear similar, there are differences in their 
activities/operations. The core objectives of the GNYSS, among 
others, are to:
(a) inculcate discipline in the Gambian youths by instilling in 
them a tradition of industry at work and loyal service to The 
Gambia in any situation they may find themselves;
(b) develop common ties among The Gambian youths, 
promote national unity and integration;
(c) remove prejudices, eliminate ignorance and confirm at first 
hand many similarities among Gambians of all ethnic 
groups;
(d) develop a sense of corporate existence and common destiny 
of the people of The Gambia;
(e) learn about higher ideals of national achievement and 
social and cultural improvement;
(f) expose youths to mode of living of people in different part 
of The Gambia;
(g) encourage religious tolerance through the accommodation 
of each other's religious affinity;
(h) impart skills and knowledge to the youths and prepare 
them for employment and or self –employment in the 
world of work; and
(i) encourage, train and guide young people for active 
participation in the social, economic, cultural, and political 58
development of The Gambia.
The NYSC objectives, on the other hand, are to:
(a) inculcate discipline in Nigerian youths by instilling in them 
a tradition of industry at work and of patriotic and loyal 
58
Supplement “C” to The Gambia Gazette No. of 1999. The Gambia National Youth Service th 
Scheme Act, 1999, Assented to by the President, 4 August, 1999, 2-3. 1SSN 0796-0298. The 
Gambia National Youth Service Scheme: Brochure, p.9.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020694
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

service to the Nation in any situation they may find 
themselves;
(b) raise the moral tone of the Nigerian youths by giving them 
the opportunity to learn about higher ideals of national 
achievement, social and cultural improvement;
(c) develop in the Nigerian youths, attitudes of mind acquired 
through shared experience and suitable training, which 
will make them more amenable to mobilisation in the 
national interest;
(d) develop common ties among our youths and promote 
national unity by ensuring that:
i. as far as possible, youths are assigned to job in the states 
other than their states of origin;
ii. each group, assigned to work together, is a 
representative of the country as possible;
iii. the youths are exposed to the mode of living of the 
people in different parts of the country with a view to 
removing prejudices, eliminating ignorance and 
confirming at first hand the many similarities among 
Nigerians of all ethnic groups;
(e) encourage members of the corps to seek, at the end of their 
corps service, career employment all over the country, thus 
promoting free movement of labour;
(f) to induce employers, partly through their experience with 
corps members, to employ more readily qualified 
Nigerians irrespective of their states of origin; and 59
(g) to enable our youths to acquire the spirit of self- reliance.
From the survey of the objectives one sees absolute transplanting 
of the NYSC's objectives in The Gambia's GNYSS, and the 
organisational structure. (see appendixes I and II of the chapter). 
Unlike the NYSC, the GNYSS corps members do not provide 
services per say, but rather are made to acquire skills for self-
59 th 
National Youth Service Year Book: 40 Edition, pp.17-18.
ST 
THE NYSC BEYOND THE 21 CENTURY 695
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

sustenance within the period of orientation, which usually lasts 60 
for twenty months and even more. The reader may consult table 
1 below for areas of the GNYSS engagements.
Table 15: Areas of GNYSS Engagement
Source: E D.Mendy, The Gambia National Youth Service Scheme Annual st 
Report, 31 December,2017, 6-7.
The above are technical vocation, education and training 
(TIVET) arms through which Isatou Drammeh, the first female 
Auto Mechanical Engineer in The Gambia and the only female 
engineer staff of The Gambian Port Authority, Banjul was 
61 
produced. Apart from TIVET, there are those trained through 
agricultural programmes such as seed multiplication, 
mechanisation, livestock and horticulture using Sapu and 
Nyaniberri farms measuring about 4.25 and 30 hectares, 
60 
The Gambia National Youth Service Scheme: Brochure, p. 5. Musa Mbye, Interview.61 
Emmanuel David Mendy, Interview. Sait-tigan, Drammeh, c42 years, Auto-Mechanic 
Engineer; Interviewed at kanifing, 28 August, 2018.FafaNjie, Interview.Podou Mbye., 
Interview.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020696
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

62 
respectively, as demonstrations. The point of confluence here is 
the NYSC SAED that came into force since 2012 and, the NYSC's 
7,000 hectares of land for arable farming across the states of the 
federation including FCT, Abuja, which are meant for such 
63 
operations. However, the NYSC through Mobilisation, 
Orientation training, Primary Assignment and sixteen 
Community Development Services, usually sends out graduates 
to render services rather than skills for a period of 12 months 
64 
before the Passing Out Parade (POP). More so, in the same way 
as the NYSC, The Gambia Ministry of Youth and Sports entered 
partnerships with VSO for the development of the youths 
65 
through the GNYSS. In short, while The Gambia scheme is 
voluntary, NYSC is mandatory for eligible graduates. The total 
number of the GNYSS first intake in 1996 stood at one hundred 
(100) corps members and since then it has never mobilised above 
66 
three hundred per batch or annum. In 2004, the GNYSS could 
not mobilise any youth due to economic challenges. Since 
1973/74 to 2019, the NYSC has never failed mobilisation in any 
year. The ability of the GNYSS to adjust to national and global 
realities that manifested in its partnership with the International 
62 
The Gambia National Youth Service Annual Report,2012 ,3-6 Office of the Executive 
Director, Bakau, The Gambia. E D.Mendy, The Gambia National Youth Service Scheme Annual st 
Report, 31 December,2017, 7-10. The Gambia National Youth Service Scheme Accelerated 
Apprenticeship Training Programme leaflet”, (Office of the Executive Director, GNYSS). 
The Gambia National Youth Service Scheme: Brochure ,18. Mendy, The Gambia National Youth 
Service Annual Report 2017, pp.6-7,( Office of the Executive Director GNYSS). “National 
Youth Service Scheme Terms of Reference for: An Impact Assessment and Tracer Study of 
the National Youth Service Scheme (NYSS)”, October, 2008, (Office of the Executive 
Director, GNYSS); National Youth Service Scheme(NYSS): An ImpactAssessment& Tracer 
Study Report, pp.4- 54, Office of the Executive Director Bakau, The Gambia.63 th   
National Youth Service Corps Year Book, 40 Anniversary…. pp.141 -145. P K.Obasi, NYSC: A
Nation attempt at Mobilizing the Youths, Ilorin: Publishing Division of Consultant and 
Marketers, 1995, pp.161-171. G K. Enegwea, “NYSC: An Enduring Legacy” in H.I. Ajaegbu,
B. J.S.T, Mathew-Daniel and O.E. Uya (eds,) Nigeria: A People United, A Future Assured, A 
Compendium, Calabar: Published for Federal Ministry of Information by Gabmo Publishers, 
2000), pp.345-367.64 
G O.Odeh, The National Youth Service Scheme and the Challenge ..,pp.16-20.G O.Odeh, 
NYSC's Engagement in the Development of Abuja…,p.147-148.65 
The Gambia National Youth Service Annual Report, 2013.66     
Office of the GNYSS Public Relation Officer (PRO), Bakau, The Gambia.
ST 
THE NYSC BEYOND THE 21 CENTURY 697
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Organisation for Migration (IOM) to curtail the tide of illegal 
movement of youth to overseas is commendable. The first 
instance of the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) was to 
last for two years (2018-2020) and thereafter renewable.
The first intake in 2018 engaged 102 migrant returnees and in 
2019, about 163 returnees were engaged bringing the total 
67 
number of returnees to 265. Despite the efforts of the GNYSS/ 
IOM partnership, a tragic incidence occurred when a boat 
th 
carrying 150 youths departed the coast of The Gambia on the 27
November 2019 and had an accident in the Atlantic Ocean, off 
the coast of Mauritania on 5th December 2019. About 60 
migrants, mainly Gambian youths, lost their lives and many 
68 
others were injured. Though the NYSC has partnerships, the 
type with IOM appears to be what GNYSS has done differently. 
The Gambia model follows Dewy's idea of Service-Learning 
arising from his emphasis on practical skills, while the NYSC in 
its operation have in it elements of James Dewey's, with William 
James and Rosenstock-Huessy models.
Still in the West Africa Sub-region there is the Ghana 
NationalService Scheme that was founded in 1973 under the 
National Redemption Council Decree 208 during the military 
regime of Acheampong. It shares similar birth year with the 
NYSC. The objectives are as follows:
(a) Encourage the spirit of national service among all 
segments of the Ghanaian society in the efforts of nation-
building through active participation;
(b) Undertake programmes designed to combat hunger, 
illiteracy, disease and unemployment in Ghana;
(c) Provide essential services and amenities, particularly in 
towns and villages of the rural areas of Ghana;
(d) Develop manpower through practical training, and;
67 
G O.Odeh, The Gambia's NYSS Partnership with the International Organization for 
Migration (IOM): Lessons for Nigeria's NYSC Scheme in the Twenty first Century, p.14.68 
Office of the Public Relations Officer (PRO), GNYSS, Bakau, The Gambia.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020698
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

(e) Promote national unity and strengthen bonds of common 
69
citizenship among Ghanaians.
A cursory look at the above does not show serious departure 
from the NYSC's objectives outlined earlier. Similarly, its 
organisational structure is not too different from the NYSC. 
Originally, it was opened to all Ghanaian from age 18 and above, 
but presently it is limited to graduates of tertiary institutions of 
70 
not more 40 years old. In the earlier years of its inception, 
participants were to serve for two years six months, but this has 
now been reduced to one year and made mandatory like the 
NYSC. Upon completion, a corps' employer may apply for an 
extension, not for punishment of recalcitrant corps member as is 
done in Nigeria, but rather as an indication that the corps 
member's services are still needed by the employer. In this case, 
the employer would only give six months. Military training was 
originally part of the orientation, but was removed and later re-
introduced. There is room for exemption, and certificate of 
completion is offered upon satisfactory service consequent upon 
endorsement by employer. The Ghana service has the capacity to 
mobilise 60,000 participants annually, while the NYSC mobilises 
71 
over 200,000 every year. It appears both Nigeria and Ghana 
have the challenge of unity and integration and so the two 
countries believe university graduates are the leaders of 
tomorrow. From its objectives one sees the applications of James 
Dewy's idea of Service-Learning and this is more so in its initial 
decades when O' level participated in the scheme.
69 
A. Langer and A T, Oshodi, In search of a (new) purpose? An Analysis Ghana's National 
Service Scheme (NSS). https://nomadit.co.uk.70 
J A. Alooh, , c.28 years, Ghana NYS Personnel; Interviewed at Binduri, Upper East-th 
Region, Ghana, 26 July, 2020. G C Emmanuel-Ahadzie, c35 years, Postgraduate Student th  
Interviewed at the University of Ghana, Legon, 27 July, 2020.71 
M. Schroyens, A. Langer, B. Mueleman , Service to the Nation: Prospective participants' 
Motivations to Conduct National Service in Ghana . Centre for Research on Peace and 
Development, Belgium. Working paper No.49, February, 2016, p. 5. National Youth th 
Service Corps Year Book, 40 Anniversary…., p. 325.
ST 
THE NYSC BEYOND THE 21 CENTURY 699
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Tirelo Setshaba is a non-military national youth community 
service launched in Botswana in 1980. Its initial targets were 
secondary school leavers who were expected to serve under 
government agencies for twelve months in villages away from 
their homes. This appears like the NYSC concept of corps 
member serving in states other than their states of origin. 
Initially, it was voluntary, but as time progressed it became 
mandatory, beginning from 1985, as part of preconditions for 
one to get into tertiary institution. However, it was later made 
voluntary. The objectives of Tirelo Setshabaare to:
(a) give an educating, broadening, maturing experience to all O' 
Level school leavers before they begin further education 
and employment;
(b) expose them to the realities of developmental needs in 
remotes areas (and to the challenges of meeting them);
(c) increase their self-discipline, initiate sense of 
responsibility, ability to identify, analyse, and help solve 
problems, and their commitment to the development of 
their country;
(d) provide educated manpower to help carry out 
development programmes in rural areas particularly in 
remote areas, and;
(e) create greater understanding among people from different 72
parts of the country.
Most of the objectives of Tirelo Setshaba above are different 
from those of NYSC, and even the target participants, both with 
elements of development and national unity. It began with 
initial participants of 28 and in the 1990s, it increased to 6000 
given the mandatory status it assumed. The scheme terminated 
in the year 2000 due to economic challenges and was re-
introduced in 2014. The age bracket now is 18 to 30. Unlike the 
NYSC under the Ministry of Youth and Sports Development, the 
Botsawanas's is headed by a Director with field officers in 
districts towns. It appears to lack a solid structure compared to 
72 
M. Rankopo, The Rise and Fall Tirelo Setshaba(Botswana's Young Community Service): A 
Personal Reflection. Vosesa.org.za.Vol-no2.T..PDF.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020700
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC. Rather than acquiring skills, participants render services 
like it is done in the NYSC. The idea of youths being leaders of 
tomorrow, which Nigeria upholds, is reflected here too, though 
there are striking differences given the educational 73
requirements with regards to the two schemes.
Another national youth service of note is the South Africa 
National Service Programme that began in 2004. It is voluntary 
in nature, but has a compulsory community service for health 
graduates; participants are between the ages of 18 to 35 and are 
to serve for a period of 12 months. Other requirements are Grade 
12, preferably with Mathematics and Science, candidates 
residing around the project area. 80 per cent of the youths 
coming from disadvantaged backgrounds must have Green 
coded South African identity Document, and 60 per cent are to 74 
be females, while 40 per cent males. This raises an interesting 
gender issue which NYSC may need to address. The proramme 
is structured into three categories namely; one, focusing on 
unemployed and out-of- school and unskilled youths for 
accredited learning and skill development. Two, focusing on 
high school learners and university students in community 
service engagement while undertaking their studying and 
thirdly, youths and adults in community volunteer 75 
opportunities. Its objectives are to:
(a) create work and learning opportunities for unemployed 
youths while at the same time addressing the shortage of 
artisans in the building industry;
(b) ensure participation of the youth in community service 
delivery thereby instilling the spirit of patriotism in South 
Africans, and;
73 
D J. Eberly, The Changing Face of National Service…, p.5. D. Molefe, T.Mudariki, G.Tsayang and 
S G.Weeks, “Maximising learning opportunities for Tirelo Setshaba(Botswana unique non-
m i l i t a r y  n a t i o n a l  s e r v i c e ”  i n  R e s e a r c h  i n  P o s t - C o m p u l s o r y  E d u c a t i o n.  
https://www.tandfonline.com. A. Langer and A T.Oshodi, In search of a (new) purpose? An 
analysis Ghana's National Service Scheme (NSS).https:// nomadit.co.uk74 
A. Langer and A T.Oshodi, In search of a (new) purpose?...,National Youth Service Brochure,- 
Expanded Public Works Programmme. www.epwp.gov.za>documents. S. Stroud, National 
Youth Service, Employability, Entrepreneurship and Sustainable Livelihoods: Overview of the National 
Youth Service Landscape in Sub-Saharan Africa.75 
S. Stroud, National Youth Service, Employability, Entrepreneurship and Sustainable Livelihoods: 
Overview of the National Youth Service Landscape in Sub-Saharan Africa.
ST 
THE NYSC BEYOND THE 21 CENTURY 701
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

(c) ensure that youths develop skills, understanding and 76
aspirations for working within the built environment.
The programme is structured into four faces; (one, Initiation; 
two, Pre-implementation recruitment, Induction and Technical 
Training; Three, Implementation made up of Tender Process 
and Construction and, finally, Beneficiary Exit). The entire 
programme is run by government departments, civil society 
organisations and National Youth Development Agency 
(NYDA). In terms of its organisation, it is not as centralised and 
focused as the NYSC, and the myriads of administration may 
affect its productivity. South African participants stood at about 
54,785 in 2012, while the NYSC has been hundreds of thousands. 
In terms of funding The Gambia, Ghana and South Africa draws 
on private sectors and other donors, while the NYSC is solely 
funded by the Federal Government. Both schemes seem to 
advocate development and patriotism, but the South African 
one looks more like internships and skill acquisition 
programme. The phases are not clearly defined like that of the 
NYSC and the “initiation” phase sounds like some sort of cult. 
The model draws largely from James Dewy proposition of 
Service–Learning and Service Study, given the practical 
knowledge it aims to instill.
Zambia and Zimbabwe are the last to be considered in 
African NYS test cases. The Zambian one was introduced in 1963 
and later re-introduced in 2005. It was a military force 
transformed into an agricultural scheme as possession of large 
military skills was de- emphasised. In the Zambia case, youth 
between ages 15 and 25 who are at the tragedy of dropouts are 
targeted. It is voluntary and essentially meant for skills 
acquisition and entrepreneurship in the field of carpentry, 
77 
welding, automotive mechanics, bricklaying and agriculture.
76 
National Youth Service Brochure, -Expanded Public Works Programmme. 
www.epwp.gov.za>documents.77
Republic of Zambia National Youth Policy , 2-30. S. Stroud, National Youth Service, 
Employability, Entrepreneurship and Sustainable Livelihoods.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020702
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

In 2014, it engaged 198 boys and 34 boys who are expected to 
serve for about 12 to 24 months. There appears to be some 
similarities between the ZNS and the GNYSS. It may be recalled 
that initial attempts were made by the Zambia to help The 
Gambia establish a scheme, but the attempts failed due to lack of 
structure, unlike the NYSC. The permanent secretary in the 
Ministry of Youth and Sport oversees the ZNS. The correlation 
between the GNYSS and the ZNS in the area of skills indicates 
that the 2005 reintroduction may have borrowed idea from The 
Gambia. The ZNS is an application of Dewy's model of national 
service, though its initial origin appears to be James William's 
idea of Moral Equivalent of War.
The Zimbabwe scheme, on the other hand, was launched in 
2001, and was met with criticisms as it was considered a militia 
wing of Zimbabwe African National Union Patriotic Front 
78 
(ZANU- PF). Its aim is to bring Zimbabweans youths into the 
realities of life as they graduate into adulthood. It is voluntary 
and participants, between the ages of 18 and 35, are to serve for 
about six months or so. Engagements include, but are not limited 
to, public work services, peace building and leadership 
development, youth volunteer corps, sustainable livelihoods 
education, career alignment. The scheme trained 50,000 youths 
between 2001 and 2008. It is funded by the Ministry of Finance, 
and is under the National Youth Service, Ministry of Youth 
79 
Development, Indigenisation and Empowerment. Arising 
from its intrusion in politics and the military torture it gives, it 
was disbanded after the fall of President Gabriel Robert Mugabe 
in January 2018. However, efforts have been on since August 
2019 to reintroduce a new brand of it. Mavima, notes this thus: 
78 
R. Mc Govern, Zimbabwe National Youth Service Programme, dev.icicp.org. “Zimbabwe: 
The National Youth Service (NYS) training programme; the type of training involved; 
age of participants; whether mandatory; whether there are exemptions; and penalty for 
refusing serve or for desertion(2001-2006)” in refworld. https://www.refworld.org.79 
National Youth Policy , Ministry of Youth Development, Indigenisation and 
Empowerment, https://www.youthpolicy.org. S. Stroud, National Youth Service, 
Employability, Entrepreneurship and Sustainable Livelihoods.
ST 
THE NYSC BEYOND THE 21 CENTURY 703
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

We have to inculcate the philosophy of ubuntu/hunbu 
in our education system. This is why we are 
seriously considering coming up with a robust 
system of discipline now that we know we cannot 
80
use corporal punishment within schools.
The aim of the envisioned revised frame work is to instill cultural 
norms, values and discipline in the youths who are perceived to 
be leaders of tomorrow. It is to make skills acquisition enterprise 
relevant. From the forgoing, the Zimbabwe model looks 
different from the NYSC in duration, operations, requirements, 
participants and organisation. However, both aim at developing 
future leaders and their countries.
Outside Africa, there are national services that we should 
briefly consider. In Germany there was forceful conscription 
into the military because of the world wars. However, in the post 
wars era around 1956 or so, there emerged Zivildienst. Initially, it 
was called Ziviler Ersatzdient-alternative civil service, officially 
81 
recognised (as Zivildienst) in government publication in 1970. It 
has two connotations: first, it means objection to perform 
compulsory military duty, but rather to be engaged in civilian 
82 
service and, secondly, concrete duties of Zivildienst. It is 
therefore an alternative work as well as an institution. It does 
appear that the primary requirement for the youths here is not 
necessarily education up to bachelor's level, as required under 
the NYSC, but professionalism and ability to work. Among 
others, the responsibilities of Zilvidienst are captured in table 2 
below:
80 
M. Bureau, “Zimbabwe: National Youth Service to Return, Says Minister,” The Herald 
(Harare) 6, August, 2019. https://allafrica.com.81
A. Ringer, “German Obligatory Service and Changing Social Values” in Thauberger, 
https:// www.aitheathauerger.com.82 
J. Kuhlmann, National Service Options in Germany. A Paper presented at the International 
Conference on the theme; National Service: A Global Perspective, Wingspread 
Conference Centre, Racine, Wisconsin, USA, June 18-21, 1992, p.11.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020704
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Table 2: Specializations in the German Zilvidienst
Source: Adopted and Modified from, J. Kuhlmann, National Service 
Options in Germany. A Paper presented at the International Conference 
on the theme, National Service: A Global Perspective, Wingspread 
Conference Centre, Racine, Wisconsin, USA, June 18-21, 1992, p.13.
In 1991, there were about 31, 207 Zivildienst officers in Germany. 
In 1994 or so there were above 150, 000 young men in Zivildienst 
andother smaller programmes such as Civil Defence or 
83 
Development Aid. In this so-called defacto arrangement, 
participants serve either in the military or Zivildienst for about 12 
to 15 months. The arrangement and operation here is totally 
different from NYSC as there is no clear-cut age limit, education 
qualification and some services could only fits into CDS, though 
below standard, military enrollment is not optional; nor is it 
mandatory for graduates in Nigeria and in all, the organisational 
structure of Zivildienst is not as defined as that of the NYSC.
In the United States there was Civilian Conservation Corps 
(CCC), which lasted between 1933 and 1942. It was established 
by the President Franklin D. Roosevelt Executive Order of April 
84 
5, 1933 as a relief programme that gave millions of young men 
environmental protection jobs during the great depression of the 
1930s. With the support of the military, CCC members planted 
83 
D J. Eberly, The Changing Face of National Service…, p.3. J. Kuhlmann, National Service 
Options in Germany, p.11.84
Civilian Conservation Corps, History .com., Civilian Conservation Corps: History. https:// 
www.park.ca.gov.
ST 
THE NYSC BEYOND THE 21 CENTURY 705
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

over 3 billion trees and constructed trails and shelter in more 
than 800 parks, 46 bridges, 62,000 buildings, 89 miles of 
85 
telephone lines etc,. The enrollees were between the age of 18 to 
25 and worked for a minimum of 6 months. Later, army veterans, 
skilled foresters and craftsmen of native America were engaged. 
It may be recalled that in 1850, the Scottish Essayist, Thomas 
Carlyle, avers that: “Unemployed men should be organized into 
the regiments to drain bogs and work in the wilderness areas for 
86 
the betterment of society”. The CCC appears to be the 
fulfillment of that prophetic thesis and the Moral Equivalent of 
War espoused by James William. Given that the Congress never 
established CCC, it fizzled out of relevance with time and what 
came to be known as national youth service in United States are 
myriads of failed and failing attempts to engage youths in a 
manner that lacked structure and precise focus. For instance, 
Students Conservation Corps emerged as summer volunteers 
under National Park Service in 1957 and was transitioned to 
Youth Conservation Corps in 1965. Since 1970s and 1980s, and 
even to date, varieties of corps are found across the United 
87 
States. In short, High School systems of Atlanta, Detroit, 
Maryland and Washington DC have community service 
requirements for graduation. This appears to agree with James 
Dewy's idea of Service-Learning and Study Service. So, there is 
no organised national youth service for graduates of the NYSC 
type in the United States. The America Peace Corps established 
in 1961 and 1962 is a prototype of the Technical Aid Corps in 
Nigeria designed for graduates to render volunteer services to 
foreign nations for a period of about two years after three 
88
months of training , which conforms to Eugen Rosenstock-
Huessy's idea. In Costa Rica, Mexico, Indonesia and the United 
85
Civilian Conservation Corps, History .com., Civilian Conservation Corps: History. 
https:// www.park.ca.gov.
D J. Eberly, The Changing Face of National Service…, p.3. 86
Civilian Conservation Corps Legacy, www.ccc.legacy.org. 87
Civilian Conservation Corps Legacy.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020706
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Kingdom, multiple organisations of youth engagement exist. 
The University of Costa Rica runs a programme called Trabajo 
Communal Universitario (TCU- University Community Work). In 
the arrangement, undergraduate students are assigned to 
professors to work for about 300 hours on projects of national 
89 
interest. This is the application of James Dewy's idea of Service 
–Learning and Study Service. In Nigeria, the resemblance of this 
is Teaching Practice and Industrial Attachment and, partly, the 
role corps members play when posted to schools and when they 
engage in CDS activities, although they do this without the 
supervision of a university professor. In Mexico through 
Servicio-Social programme inaugurated in1937, medical 
students work for six months in places with medical and health 
90 
needs and furnish the mentor weekly progress report. This is 
Dewy's idea again which is only implemented in Nigeria during 
internship and under the NYSC. However, medical and health 
graduates under the NYSC platform undertake health campaign 
and treatment of people in rural communities. In Indonesia, the 
service appears to have grown out of the war of its 
independence. Soldiers took up themselves to children in 
villages when they were not fighting. The military wanted 
future leaders to take pencils and books to work in project areas 
such as public health, clean water supplies, and agriculture. In 
the 1950s, there was the national youth service aimed at 
providing teachers to secondary schools. However, by 1963 the 
government gave that role to university juniors who were to 
91 
work under professors in appropriate areas of needs. The 
prominent university in this enterprise is the Gadjah Mada 
88 
J .Ekong, National Service and International Co-operation: The Nigerian Experience. A text of 
Address by the Ambassador and Director, Nigerian Technical Aid Corps, Ministry of 
Foreign Affairs, at the Second Global Conference on Ntaional Youth Service held in 
Abuja, Nigeria October,1994, pp.1-8. Peace Corps, https://www.peacecorps.org., Peace 
Corps/Mission/History and Facts-Britannica, https://www.britannica.com.89
Costa Rica Innovations in Civic Participations, www.icicp.org.90 
D J. Eberly, The Changing Face of National Service…,p.4.91 
D J. Eberly, The Changing Face of National Service…, pp.3-4. For further detail on civic 
participation see, Indonesia: Download PDF, https://www.youthpolicy.org.
ST 
THE NYSC BEYOND THE 21 CENTURY 707
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

University, Indonesia. This again is largely a combined 
application of James William and James Dewy's idea. The points 
raised about NYSC in the instances are retained. The services in 
Mexico and Indonesia were affected in the 1980s or so, due to 
reduction in oil prices. This is a wakeup call to the NYSC.
In the UK, England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales, 
there are several youth polices and organisations. The British 
92 
Youth Council has over 230 national and local organisations.
The UK does not adopt European Union's definition of youth 
(age 15-25), but a national policy that sees youths as those 
between ages 18 and 19. However, community and voluntary 
93 
services adopts 25 years. The UK has service learning 
programmes christened Community Links with General 
94 
Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE). Books and 
curriculum have been produced by the community. From the 
foregoing, the quadruple of Costa Rica, Mexico, Indonesia and 
the United Kingdom have no independently structured and 
organised national youth service as the NYSC. Their 
engagements are smaller forms of the NYSC postings to 
secondary schools and CDS.
In concluding this section, we reiterate the glaring fact that 
there has not been any national youth service scheme in the 
whole of Africa, America and Europe that could be favourably 
compared to the NYSC in terms of organisation, aim, objectives, 
operations and achievements. The comparative analysis here 
appears to validate the 1994 claim of the Gambian study team. In 
the words of Aminah Faal-Sonko:
Members of The Gambian Study Team that visited 
America, Europe, the Middle East and a number of 
African countries in search of a  model youth service 
92
Youth Policy, United Kingdom, https://www.youthpolicy.org.93 
A. Biggart, National Youth Service Policy in UK: Trends, Issues and Evaluation, https:// 
link.springer.com.94     
D J. Eberly, The Changing Face of National Service…, p.5.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020708
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

scheme for The Gambia were unanimous in their report 
that the NYSC in Nigeria is the best organised Youth 95
Service Programme in the world.
Recent research further buttresses the above thus:
When people try Nigeria's NYSC with other schemes, I 
usually tell them there is no need for such comparison. 
This is because such exercise is like comparing the 
living and the dead. NYSC is a colossus in the comity of 96
national youth service schemes.
These observations are underpinned by the fact that the NYSC is 
not just a local and national player, but also a global player as 
well. This does not mean there are challenges facing the NYSC. 
How it could overcome the challenges remain the focus of the 
subsequent part of the chapter.
st 
The NYSC Beyond the 21 Century th 
The NYSC has made good its promise in the 20 century and at st 
the sunrise of the 21 century. The vision for the remaining part 
of the century and beyond lies in its history of over 47 years of 
national and international engagement. In this history, the 
NYSC should note its areas of failures and successes to enable it 
sail through the challenges of the century and beyond. In this 
history too lies the forces of adjusting to national trends and 
domesticating global experiences. The prospects of the scheme 
may be viewed from home and the global fronts. The home front 
includes, among others, the question of the man in the 
orientation and the man during the passing out parade. The 97 
scheme no doubt has become a household name in Nigeria. But 
the question is whether it has been able to create a new man out 
95 
G K. Enegwea, “NYSC: An Enduring.., 341. Gregory Kas Enegwea, Interview.96 
M. Koroma, c47 years, GNYSS Accountant;  Interviewed at Bakau, 27 August, 2018.97 
S. Abacha, Address By the Head of State, Commander-In-Chief of the Armed Forces of 
the Federal Republic of Nigeria at the opening ceremony of the second Global 
Conference on National Youth Service, held in Abuja on Tuesday,11, October,1994,p.2.
ST 
THE NYSC BEYOND THE 21 CENTURY 709
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

of the man that comes to the orientation camp and stays 
thereafter for a whole year. The NYSC itself notes this several 
years ago, but it does appear the challenge is still there. It 
observes that:
…the foremost challenge of the scheme is to create a 
new man whose values and attitudinal disposition will 
be in consonance with the societal/national 
demands…the central source of concern it would 
appear is the extent to which the attitudinal disposition 
of corps member have been affected by the programme 
and how to measure and sustain such attitudinal 
98
change much vital to the future of the scheme.
At fifteen, one of the director generals agreed with the above and 
points up thus:
The focus of our operation. The final product of our 
endeavour is a new person in the corps member at the 
passing out…we must pay attention to the quality of 
99
corps member we turn out.
The above shows that the entire programme needs serious 
overhauling for enhanced performance. The orientation phase is 
of few days loaded with paramilitary activities with the 
language instruction most times ending as mere mental exercise 
as instructors hardly get corps member to learn basic alphabet. 
The primary assignment and community development service 
lacked the required monitoring and evaluation. Be that as it may, 
having a new Nigeria is not a task of a single institution. There is 
therefore need for a working synergy between the NYSC, 
National Universities Commission (NUC) and the many degree 
awarding institutions within and outside Nigeria whose 
products are mobilised by the scheme. The recent policy in the 
98   
A O.Sanda, Youth Service and World Peace.p.14.99   
A O.Sanda, Youth Service and World Peace.p.14.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020710
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

scheme by the current Director General whereby foreign 
prospective corps members and serving ones are made to write 
qualifying exams for mobilisation and certificate of discharge is 
commendable, but more commitment is still needed along that 
direction.
Again, the rural – urban posting formula has issues that 
should be overcome. Ideally, rural-urban posting formula 100 
should be 25 per cent and 75 per cent, respectively. The scheme 
has been under serious pressure from corps members, parents 
and politicians as most people want to serve in the capital of their 
states of deployment. How then could one realise the objective of 
exposing graduates to different mode of lives and cultures of the 
people across the length and breadth of Nigeria? The real 
cultural and traditional people showcasing Nigeria's heritage 
and who are capable of educating corps members are not living 
in the city centres, but are in remote communities and villages. 
Related to this is the desire of parents in wanting their wards to 
serve in some states rather than allowing the national posting 
policy to prevail. Such an attitude is inimical to the core 
objectives of the NYSC.
Furthermore, the CDS groups appear cumbersome and 
therefore would need reconfiguration to be more focused, 
precise and sharp. Presently, there are about sixteen CDS groups 
with a plethora of purposes and activities that sometimes 101 
overlap. The challenge is not the number of the groups per say, 
but rather on the purposes and activities that lack precise focus. 
The consequence of this is the inability of corps member to fully 
grasp the fundamentals of the groups, which makes them to end 
up bringing nothing to the table. Corps members should be 
posted to groups of interest and academic background. More 
importantly, agencies with CDS brand names such as EFCC, 
ICPC, Road Safety, NEMA, NAFDAC, SON, should be made to 
100 
A. Sofoluwe, National Youth Service Corps: Challenges and  Prospects…, p.18.101 
G O.Odeh, “NYSC's Engagement in the Development of Abuja…”,pp.47-48. G 
O.Odeh, A Historical Survey of NYSC Community Development Scheme in Abuja, Federal 
Capital Territory, 1983 – 2010 . M.A. Dissertation, Department of History, Benue State 
University, Makurdi, 2013, pp.35-80.
ST 
THE NYSC BEYOND THE 21 CENTURY 711
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

seat up and actually work with corps members. It is strongly 
recommended that stakeholders in the NYSC and collaborating 
agencies ensure that work experience in the service year is 
strongly valued as an added advantage, if not made a pre- 
requisite for graduates seeking employment with the 
organisation in the post service year. 
In addition to the above is the possibility of introducing 
NYSC related courses in the universities and tertiary th 
institutions. General Sani Abacha made this call in the 20
century. He recommended that universities should work on a 
General Studies Course with the brand name, “National Youth 102 
Service Community Mobilisation”. There is no compelling 
time for the implementation of this call than now that the nation 
is fast losing grip of its ethos. Undergraduates ought to have 
been adequately furnished with the mechanics of the scheme 
before getting to the orientation camp. Thus, heeding to and 
implementing the advice of the former head of state would boost 
the relevance of the scheme in the 21st century and save it from 
the sledge hammer of critics. Taking the scheme to the hub of 
academics that would make it more relevant to all and sundry 
and fast-track the drive towards rural integrated development 
and national integration is highly suggested.
While the above is being done, the NYSC management, the 
National Assembly and the masses should press for a legislation 
that would make certificate of service (not exemption) a 
compulsory requirement for the offices of the President, Vice 
President, Senate President and the entire members of the 
National Assembly, State Governor and State Houses. Historical 
parallel of this abounds in the United States where it appears 
presidents of the country are usually products of Ivy League 
Schools/Universities such as Harvard, Princeton, Yale, Penn, 103 
Columbia, Cornell, etc,. The US experience may be a product of 
102 
S. Abacha, Address by the Head of State, Commander-In-Chief of the Armed 
Forces…,p.4.103 
Academic interaction with Dr. E U.Olowu of the blessed memory. Dr.Olowu is a 
product of the University of Pennsylvania. He is criminology expert whose specialises in 
penalogy and victimology. Till his death in March, 2020, he heads Department of 
Sociology, Bingham University, Karu .
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020712
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

chance, but ours demand legislation to make NYSC a defining 
factor in Nigeria's citizenship. This may be perceived as 
discriminatory, but borne out of patriotism to rescue the nation 
from the hands of narrow minded and ruthless politicians that 
are completely ignorant of the diversities of the country. In short, 
notwithstanding the character and comments of some products 
of the scheme in the National Assembly, those that have 
thoroughly passed through the NYSC come out with a proper 
view of Nigeria. Lawal, cited in Enegwea, reinforces this that: 
Nobody who have participated in the Scheme comes out 
with the same level of understanding of both national 
issues and commitment…. participants at the end come 
out not as tribal champions, but nationalists with strong 
moral fibre and appreciable degree of respect for the 
dignity of labour and understanding the task ahead in 104
national development.
Making appropriate legislations to make the scheme 
compulsory for leadership positions would attach strong 
importance to it which will further enhance the status of the 
NYSC in the twenty first century and beyond.
The possible implementation of the above notwithstanding, 
the scheme has demographic challenges to contend with and 
overcome. As already noted in the chapter, the scheme took off th 
in the 20 century with two thousand, three hundred and forty-
six pioneering corps members and over forty years after, it 
started mobilising over two hundred thousand annually. This 
constitutes serious demographic challenge that raises two 
fundamental issues. One, there may be need to create three arms: 
one for university graduates; two, for polytechnics and colleges 
of education and other degree awarding institutes and three, 
voluntary unit. 
104      
G K.Enegwea, “NYSC: An Enduring Legacy”….pp.344-345.
ST 
THE NYSC BEYOND THE 21 CENTURY 713
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Graduates of other institutions other than universities 
should be engaged in practical training and skill acquisitions. 
Also, to some extent, university graduates from specialised and 
professional courses such Agriculture, Engineering, and 
Commercial Courses, among others. Ghana appears to have 105 
operated this system of NYS in its initial decades. The last 
handle of it is to create a voluntary arm and lift the age 
requirement bar from 35 to 40 years. It seems the Lower House of 
the National Assembly is already on the move to jack up age 
limit of government jobs for graduates from 30 to something 
between 35 and 40 years. This would not in any way trigger 
population surge in the scheme, but will rather constitute an 
economic advantage for the nation. In short, the voluntary arm 
may be totally devoted to the Agricultural sector of farming.
The scheme needs a management that  is curious, creative, 
innovative and entrepreneurial to drive it to its desired pedestal. 
A cursory look at the leadership profile shows the NYSC to have 
been dominated by the military. Understood, its background is 
military, but even the pioneering chairman, Professor Adebayo 
Adedeji, is a civilian, and Rev. P O. Okrunamade and Police 106 
Commissioner Emakaro are not from the military.
About fifteen heads of the scheme are from the military. The 
leadership should be demilitarised, democratised and opened to 
civilians with administrative, entrepreneurial and innovative 
skills to come on board. After all, this is not a military regime and 
the Commander-in -Chief of the Federal Armed Forces is no 
longer a military man, but a ''born again'' democrat. This is also 
applicable to the office of the Minister of Defence. Changing or 
swapping between the military and civilians would lead to 
cross-fertilisation of ideas and enhance military-civil relations 
currently beingadvocated for in the military. 
105 
G O.Odeh,The Gambia's NYSS Partnership with the International Organization for 
Migration (IOM): Lessons for Nigeria's NYSC Scheme in the Twenty first Century…, p.18.106 th 
National Youth Service Year Book: 40 Edition, p.25. G O.Odeh, The National Youth 
Service Scheme and the Challenge of Nation Building in Nigeria…,p.40.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020714
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

There is also the issue of rejection of corps member after 
being posted from the orientation camp to places of primary 
assignments. Rejection causes psychological stress and delay in 
the settling down of corps members. Appropriate legislation 
should be made to make acceptance of corps members in 
organisations and establishments compulsory. The challenge 
sometimes is not that the services of a corps member are not 
needed, but rather the inability or unwillingness of such 
organisations to pay him/her some stipends. Towards this end, 
corps members' allowances may have to be further increased so 
that even if the required stipends from their places of primary 
assignments are not paid, they should still be able to cope with 
the economic realities of the time while serving. After all, it is a 
service to the fatherland and should be fired by patriotic flavour. 
Very crucial to the nation's economy and the relevance of the 
scheme is the challenge of agriculture. This received lip service, 
instead of action, in the crusade for the revitalisation of 
agriculture and the diversification of the economy. The 
incontrovertible fact is, before oil, there was agriculture and after 
oil there will be agriculture. Man needs food from cradle to 
grave. The NYSC has thousands of hectares of arable land across 
the states of the federation including the FCT. The scheme needs 
to fully reactivate its operations and partner with relevant 
agencies, faculties and departments in the universities and other 
institutions. It is time to mobilise graduates directly to farm with 
thorough monitoring and evaluation to yield results. The ability 
of the scheme to champion the restoration of agriculture thereby 
contributing to feeding the teeming population and substituting 
st 
import bill would endear it to the society in the 21 century and 
beyond.
This is especially so because of the centrality of agriculture to 
the security of the nation. This throws enormous challenge to all 
managers of men and resources, which the scheme happens to 
be one. Not posting corps members to some states of the 
federation because of   frequent loss of lives is one the major 
ST 
THE NYSC BEYOND THE 21 CENTURY 715
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

107 
concerns theNYSC. Thus, the to protect corps members, staff, 
and come out of security quagmire led to the development of 
security tip handbook titled “ National Youth Service Corps 
Security Awareness and Education Handbook for Corps Members and 
Staff, Manshasdu Printing Company Ltd, 2004. Like Zivildienst, 
in post-world war Germany, the NYSC should work towards 
mobilising directly into the military or community police and 
with proper demobilisation package. This would improve the 
security climate of the country. After all, the best security 
architecture is intelligent gathering and graduates are the most 
intelligent people.
Related to security in the list of challenges confronting the 
NYSC is the attention generated by female corps members 
because of their dress code. The recent issue pertaining to the 
wearing of skirts by two female prospective corps members of 
the 2019 batch “C” stream deployed to the Ebonyi State 
orientation camp comes into focus. The debate elicited by the 
episode centres on the historicity of the NYSC dressing codes for 
female corps members, the nature of the orientation exercise, the 
general dressing code for the female gender in the military and 
paramilitary outfits, and the religious beliefs of the prospective 
corps members in question. The event casts serious light on the 
ethnic and religious character and composition of Nigeria, 
which was what led to the civil (1967-1970) and the formation of 
the scheme itself. In addressing the Ebonyi episode, the NYSC 
summarily de-kitted the prospective corps members. Out of the 
many issues this development raises, very crucial is the question 
regarding how an issue bothering on female dressing could be 
resolved in such a way that diverse elements are carried along 
without jeopardising people's religious beliefs and by so doing, 
scuttling the unity and discipline which the NYSC seeks to 
inculcate. Whatever perspective one views it; the wearing of 
107 
A.T. Akume, S. Micheal, M O.Abu, “Conflict, the NYSC Programme and the Question 
of Policy Relevance in Present Day Nigeria: An Assessment” in 50 Years of Nigeria's 
Nationhood: Issues and Challenges for Sustainable Development. D.A. Abdulrahman, I. 
Ogundia, T.Garba, I M. Dankani, (eds): A Publication of Faculty of Social Sciences, 
Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto. Ibadan: Crown F. Publishers, 2012, P. 111.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020716
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

skirts in Ebonyi camp epitomises a fundamental clash between 
the forces of the old and new order.
To navigate through this challenge and related ones, it is 
important to come to terms with the reality that building a nation 
in a multi ethnic state such as Nigeria is a gradual process that 
involves some sort of ''add and drop'' to accommodate varying 
interest groups. Since the NYSC is not yet in a state of perfection, 
stakeholders and scholars should put heads together for 
conscious deliberations on the subject of a dress code that 
revolves around the wearing of hijabs and skirts by female corps 
members of diverse religious persuasions in a manner as to 
minimise the tension resulting from religious differences. On 
this note we affirm that wearing of skits as is sometimes done in 
the military and paramilitary is, therefore, recommended, 
108
depending on the activities in the camp.
At the global front the challenge are one, that of reviving 
global conferences of National Youth Service. It has been noted 
that the biennial conference went into oblivion and has to be 
revive by the NYSC given its standing in the comity of national 
youth services. The scheme would remain internationally 
relevant as it continues to learn and embrace new challenges at 
the global fora. According to Abacha, youth service by its nature 
and concept has a value and relevance that cannot be confined 
109 
within national borders. Inability to do this may partly render 
the NYSC a local champion. Secondly, becoming a founding 
partner of the GNYSS is a role history has thrown on the NYSC 
and that had great prospects for South-South development 
strategy as it should ensure the continual survival of the GNYSS. 
Thus, the demand for the GNYSS renewed partnership with the 
NYSC should be put into consideration. Concerning this, 
Mendy, cited in Odeh, notes that:
108 
G O.Odeh, Issues in Dressing Code for NYSC Female Corps Member, (Unpublished), 
Department of History, Sokoto State University, Sokoto, 2019, pp.1-15.109    
S. Abacha, Address by the Head of State, Commander-In-Chief of the Armed 
Forces…, p.5.
ST 
THE NYSC BEYOND THE 21 CENTURY 717
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

We have good relationship with Nigeria NYSC, which 
terminated in 2004/2005end biannual support years. 
We are trying to revitalize the relationship to enable us 
address the problem of man power by getting more 
110
personnel support.
Mbye, cited in Odeh, buttresses this broadly thus:
The GNYSS has helped youths who would have 
become national liability. This means much to me. 
Nigeria should try to further help the GNYSS. I know 
Nigeria is a big brother not only to The Gambia, but to 
the entire African States. Through the efforts of 
Nigeria, the dream of ECOWAS, African Union and 
international community can be achieved in The 
111
Gambia.
From the forgoing, it is clear that the continual survival and 
success of the GYNSS would boost the relevance of Nigeria and 
the NYSC in the region, sub-region and beyond.
The question at this juncture is, what should the NYSC 
domesticate to keep it relevant beyond now? Three things stand 
out here: One, to develop and domesticate a regional or sub- 
regional conference that is a resemblance of the global youth 
conference for youth organisations in Africa. Secondly, the need 
to partner and constantly adjust to changing realities. The 
GNYSS partnership with the International Organisation for 
Migration (IOM) spoken about is a lesson from whic to learn. In 
the same manner, the NYSC should adjust and partner with 
relevant international agencies such as the UN, for example, for 
comprehensive engagement of youths in the fight against 
national and global crime. Sanda saw this and cautions that: 
110     
G O.Odeh, Nigeria NYSC''s Role in the Founding of The Gambia National Youth Service, 
1996- 2004. A PhD Dissertation, Department of History and International In studies, 
Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka,2019, pp.176-177.
111 
G O.Odeh, Nigeria NYSC''s Role in the Founding of The Gambia…,p.177.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020718
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

World peace…can however be significantly promoted 
through the elimination of the limitations of the 
existing approaches to world peace and the strategic 
deployment of youth services worldwide in the 
112
furtherance of global peace.
This has been a neglected approach to national and global 
security. Adults appeared to have failed in the area of national 
and global peace. It is often said that the youths are the leaders of 
tomorrow, it could be the long spoke about tomorrow having 
come. Given the awesome cyber intelligence youths possess, 
they should be put at the forefront of the struggle for national 
and global peace. Finally, the NYSC should expand its revenue 
base to ensure that global shocks on oil prices do not affect its 
operations. History has unveiled the negative consequence of 
global prices of oil on the activities of the Indonesia and Mexico 
youth services in the late 1970s and 1980s. This should be a 
warning to the NYSC under Brigadier General Ibrahim Shauibu 
to develop a strong Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) base for 
the scheme. The inability of the GNYSS to mobilise in 2004 due to 
funding is a warning too. The current DG acted differently by 
setting up a printing press for the NYSC, and this is 
commendable.
The NYSC should also domesticate  the skill acquisition 
enterprise of Botswana, The Gambia and Ghana youth services 
to generate robust revenue and create employment for Nigerian 
graduates. Also, the scheme's Joint Venture arrangement with 
113 
the National Directorate of Employment (NDE) which has 
gone comatose should be revived. In short, research has shown 
that upon completion of NYSC, only 5.7 per cent of graduates 
receive offer of employment; 60 to 70 per cent spend up to 
thirteen to fourteen months doing nothing; 14 per cent spend 
114 
two to three years, still unemployed, while some never get a 
112 
A O.Sanda, Youth Service and World Peace , p7.113   
A. Sofoluwe, National Youth Service Corps: Challenges and Prospects…, pp.21-26.114 
O.O. Taiwo, “Globalization, Society and Culture: Whither Nigerian Youth”.., p.249.
ST 
THE NYSC BEYOND THE 21 CENTURY 719
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

government job at all. The SAED, therefore, needs serious 
attention and support to help generate revenue and create 
employment opportunities for corps members in the post 
service years. With these and proper funding, successive 
government support and dismantling of unnecessary 
th st 
bureaucratic bottlenecks, the scheme can survive 20 and 1
century.
Conclusion
The chapter has examined the NYSC within the context of its 
evolution and prevailing national and global realities. The 
chapter has equally done a comparative analysis of the modus 
operandi of the scheme with similar ones elsewhere in Africa, 
America, Asia and Europe and found that the NYSC remained 
the best organised National Youth Service programme in the 
world. However, it is not yet uhuru given the travail the scheme 
and its operators have to contend with to justify its existence and 
st 
to advance its course beyond the 21 century. The chapter argued 
that the future appears grimmer if the operators of the NYSC and 
its stakeholders run the scheme contrary to the ideals of National 
Service as Moral Equivalent of War, National Service as Service-
Learning and Study and National Service as A Way of 
Strengthening Ties Among Peoples Across the World as 
espoused by the trio of William James, John Dewy and Eugen 
Rosenstock-Huessy. The chapter sums it up by pointing out that 
the NYSC has come of age to be able to define citizenship that 
could birth the dream of a new Nigeria. And as a foot soldier in 
the national building project, the NYSC should brace up as it 
st 
navigates the bumpy roads of the battle of relevance in the 21
century and beyond.
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020720
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Bibliographical References
 A. Oral interviews
Alooh, J A , c.28 years, Ghana NYS Personnel; Interviewed at th 
Binduri, Upper East-Region, Ghana, 26 July, 2020.
Ango, V, c.56 years, Deputy Director of NYSC; Interviewed at th
theNYSC National Directorate Headquarters, Abuja 5
September, 2018.
Anyia, G F, c.56 years, Assistant Director of NYSC; Interviewed 
at the NYSC Orientation Camp, Keffi-Nasarawa State, 29th 
April, 2018.
Drammeh, S, c42 years, Auto-Mechanic Engineer; Interviewed 
at kanifing, 28 August, 2018.
Emmanuel-Ahadzie, G C, c35 years, Postgraduate student th 
Interviewed at University of Ghana, Legon, 27 July, 2020. 
Enegwea, G K, c.76 years, Retiree; Interviewed at Abuja, th 
28 April, 2018.
Funke, A E, c56 years, NYSC Cross River State Coordinator; th 
Interviewed at Calabar, 20 September, 2018.
Ibidapo-Obe, O, c.58 years, Nigeria High Commissioner; th 
Interviewed at Banjul, 30 August, 2018.
Idoga, A O, c.56 years, Assistant Director of the NYSC; 
Interviewed at NYSC National Directorate Headquarters, th
Abuja. 7 June, 2018.
Koroma, M, c 47 years, GNYSS Accountant; Interviewed at 
Bakau, 27 August, 2018.
Kurawa, H O, c.56 years, Director General Services of NYSC; 
Interviewed at NYSC National Directorate Headquarters, th 
Abuja, 8 June, 2018.
Mbye, M, c.50 years, Director of Planning/ and Deputy 
Permanent Secretary Ministry of Youth and Sports; th 
Interviewed at The Quadrangle, Banjul, 30 August, 2018.
Mendy, E D, c.48 years, Executive Director, The Gambia th 
National Youth Service Scheme; Interviewed at Bakau, 27
August, 2018.
ST 
THE NYSC BEYOND THE 21 CENTURY 721
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

B. Archival Material
Kaka, A A, “Minutes of the Meeting on Planned Collaboration 
between the NYSC and the United Nations Volunteers 
(UNV)”, the National Directorate Headquarters, th     
YakubuGowon House, Maitama, Abuja.19 August, 
1996(NYSC Archives, TX/RX NO: 1373).
National Youth Service Corps Report of the Committee to Draft 
Terms of Bilateral Agreement between the National Youth 
Service Corps (NYSC) and Countries Requesting for 
Technical Assistance Submitted to the Director General, th 
Brig.Gen. S M. Dule, Fss, Mss, 19 January, 1999. The report 
was a response to Circular NYSC/DG/153/S.9/SEC/ 
dated 08 Dec., 1998(NYSC Archive-Abuja).
Republic of Zambia National Youth Policy, Lusaka, Zambia, 1994, 
(NYSC Archives, File No. GC/94/PP/23), National 
Directorate Headquarters, Yakubu Gowon House 
Maitama, Abuja.
C. Official/Private Document
Enegwea, G K, “Appointment of Technical Experts to Help Run 
The Gambia National Youth Service Scheme:- Request for 
a Return Ticket and Estacode, for Impending Preliminary 
Assignment in The Gambia”,19 December,1995,( Abuja: 
Gregory Kas Enegwea Personal File).
Imienwarin, P R, for Director General , Press Release : Pioneer 
NYSC Member Appointed Administrator of Gambia Youth nd 
Service, Ref: NYSC/NDHE/PRD/T.2, 2 February, 1996, 
(Enegwea Personal File and record).
Mendy, E D, The Gambia National Youth Service Scheme Annual st 
Report, 31 December,2017. Office of the Executive 
Director, The Gambia National Youth Service 
Headquarters, Opposite Friendship Hotel, Bakau, The 
Gambia.
Njie, S, “The Gambia National Youth Service Scheme 
Testimonial of Noble Service”,(Chief Gregory F. Anyia 
Personal File).
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020722
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Olisa, S A.D, For Hon. Minister of Foreign Affairs, Attention: 
Alhaji
M. Bulama; Re-Request for Technical Exports to Help Run The 
Gambia National Youth Service Scheme , (Directorate of 
Technical Aid Corps, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Abuja), t h  
R e f .  N o :  T A C / R C / 0 0 2 / V ,  7 D e c e m b e r ,  
1995.Olorunnisomo, J.O, Ozoma A M, and Kobani, B N, 
“An Interim Report of the Committee on Technical 
Cooperation between the Republic of The Gambia and the 
Federal Republic of Nigeria in the Field of National Youth 
Service Scheme”, submitted to the Director General, nd 
Colonel Sofoluwe, S A, Mss, Fss, Pscon Tuesday, 22
August, 1995.
Schroyens, M, Langer, Mueleman , A B, Service to the Nation: 
Prospective participants' motivations to conduct national 
service in Ghana . Centre for Research on Peace and 
Development, Belgium, Working paper No.49, February, 
2016, p. 5.
Sofoluwe, S A, Circular, 1994 Global Conference on National Youth th 
Service, NYSC/DG/153/5.9/Sec/Vol.VI/391, 20 July, 
1994,2.(G K. Enegwea personal files and record).rd 
Press Release 3 Batch of Nigeria Technical Expert on National Youth 
Service Scheme (NYSS) Arrive The Gambia (Gregory F. Anyia 
Personal File).
The Gambia National Youth Service Annual Report, 2013, Office 
of the Executive Director, The Gambia National Youth 
Service Headquarters, Opposite Friendship Hotel, Bakau, 
The Gambia.
“National Youth Service Scheme Terms of Reference for: An 
Impact Assessment and Tracer Study of the National 
Youth Service Scheme (NYSS)”, October, 2008, (Office of 
the Executive Director, GNYSS).
National Youth Service Scheme (NYSS): An Impact Assessment 
& Tracer Study Report, pp.4-54(Office of the Executive 
Director Bakau, The Gambia).
The Gambia National Youth Service Scheme Programme 
ST 
THE NYSC BEYOND THE 21 CENTURY 723
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Handbook for the Convocation Ceremony of the Fifth 
Batch of Corps Members and Official Launching of the 
National Youth Enterprise Revolving Fund by His 
Excellency Alhagie (Dr) Yahya A.J.J. Jammeh, President 
and Commander-in-Chief of the Republic of The Gambia”, th 
Wednesday, 25 July, 2001, at the Independence Stadium 
and Friendship Hotel,Bakau,(A Publication of Public 
Relations Department, GNYSS,2001).
“Federal Republic of Nigeria Technical Aid Corps Programme: 
Agreement between the Federal Government of Nigeria 
Aid Corps Volunteer”,( Banjul: Nigeria High 
Commission).
The Gambia National Youth Service Scheme: Brochure , (A 
publication of The Gambia National Youth Service, Fajara 
South Atlantic off Garba Jahumpa Roads Kanifing, Bakau 
The Gambia), n.d.
Supplement “C” to The Gambia Gazette No. of 1999. The Gambia 
National Youth Service Scheme Act, 1999, Assented to by the th 
President, 4 August, 1999, 1SSN 0796-0298. The Gambia 
National Youth Service Scheme: Brochure.
The Gambia National Youth Service Scheme Accelerated 
Apprenticeship Training Programme leaflet”, (Office of 
the Executive Director, GNYSS).
The Gambia National Youth Service Annual Report,2012, Office 
of the Executive Director, Bakau, The Gambia.
D. Books
Agu, U, NYSC and Nigerian Unity: A Critical Appraisal, Enugu: 
Agene Publishers, 1995.
Akume, A T, Micheal, S , .Abu, M O,”Conflict, the NYSC 
Programme and the Question of Policy Relevance in 
Present Day Nigeria: An Assessment” in 50 Years of 
Nigeria's Nationhood: Issues and Challenges for Sustainable 
Development.
D.A. Abdulrahman, I. Ogundia, T.Garba, I M. Dankani, (eds): A 
Publication of Faculty of Social Sciences, Usmanu 
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020724
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Danfodiyo University, Sokoto. Ibadan: Crown F. 
Publishers, 2012, Pp.97-117.
Aneke, L, Ohuabuna, M S, Thompson M O,,(eds), The Nigerian 
1966 Coup and Biafra: Myths and Realities , Alaigbo 
Development Foundation( ADF) publication, Enugu: 
Fourth Dimension, 2018.Chikendu, P N, Imperialism and 
Nationalism, Enugu: Academic Publishing, 2004.
Enegwea G K, and Umoden, G NYSC: Twenty Years of National 
Service, Lagos: Gabumo Publishing, 1993.
G K. Enegwea, “NYSC: An Enduring Legacy” in H.I. Ajaegbu, H 
I, Mathew-Daniel B J S T, and Uya O E, (eds,) Nigeria : A 
People United, A Future Assured, A Compendium, Calabar: 
Published for Federal Ministry of Information by Gabmo 
Publishers, 2000), pp.345-367.
Obasi, P K, NYSC: A Nation attempt at Mobilizing the Youths, 
Ilorin: Publishing Division of Consultant and Marketers, 
1995.
Odeh, G O, “Politics of Appointment of Vice Chancellor in 
Nigerian States Universities: The Experience of Professor 
Nuhu O. Yaqub, OFR, 2012-2017” in History, Globalization 
& Relations in Africa: Festschrift in Honour of Okpeh O. Okpeh, 
Jnr, Ukase, P I, Ugbegili, S I, Audu, B J, Ikpanor E T, (eds,), 
Lagos: Integrity Publishers, 2018, pp.766-780.
Odeh, G O, The National Youth Service Scheme and the Challenge of 
Nation Building in Nigeria (1973-2008) , Abuja: Olowu 
Publishers, 2009.
Taiwo, O O, “Globalization, Society and Culture: Wither 
Nigerian Youths” in Nigeria and Globalization: Discourses on 
Identity Politics and Social Conflict, Lagos: Centre for Black 
and African Arts and Civilization (CBAAC) National 
Theatre, 2004, pp. 241-256. th 
National Youth Service Corps Year Book, 40 Anniversary 
Commemorative Edition , (Abuja: NYSC National 
Directorate Headquarters, 2013), 17. NYSC Sokoto State 
Batch “B” Orientation Programme and Service Guide , th th 
Thursday 24 November-Wednesday 14 December 2016.
ST 
THE NYSC BEYOND THE 21 CENTURY 725
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

th 
NYSC Year Book: 25 Anniversary, 1973-1998 , (Abuja: Publication 
of NYSC National DirectorateHeadquarters,1998).
E. Address/ Conference Papers
Abacha, S, Address By the Head of State, Commander-In-Chief 
of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria at 
the opening ceremony of the second Global Conference on 
National Youth Service, held in Abuja on Tuesday,11, 
October,1994. th 
Eberly, D J, The Changing Face of National Service in the 20 Century. 
A Paper presented at the Second Global Conference on 
National Youth Service, Abuja, Nigeria, October, pp.10-14, 
1994.
Gowon, Y, “Linking Youth Services with Global 
Understanding”: Keynote Speech Delivered at the nd 
Opening ceremony of the 2 Global Conference on th 
National Youth Service, Abuja, 11 October, 1994.
J .Ekong, National Service and International Co-operation: The 
Nigerian Experience. A text of Address by the Ambassador 
and Director, Nigerian Technical Aid Corps, Ministry of 
Foreign Affairs, at the Second Global Conference on 
National Youth Service held in Abuja, Nigeria 
October,1994.
Kuhlmann, J, National Service Options in Germany . A Paper 
presented at the International Conference on the theme; 
National Service: A Global Perspective, Wingspread 
Conference Centre, Racine, Wisconsin, USA, June 18-21, 
1992.
Odeh, G O,The Gambia's NYSS Partnership with the International 
Organization for Migration (IOM): Lessons for Nigeria's 
NYSC Scheme in the Twenty first Century.A paper presented 
at the conference organized by the University of Texas at 
Austin, the Pan African University Press and the Chronicle 
on the theme Sweat is Invisible in the Rain: A Conference on 
Culture, Politics and Contemporary Issues in The Gambia held 
at Paradise Suite Hotel, 3 Paradise Beach Place, off Bertil 
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020726
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

th th 
Harding Highway (Kololi), Banjul, The Gambia 14 -15
December, 2019.Sanda, A O, Youth Service and World Peace. 
A Paper presented at the Second Global Conference of 
National Youth Service, NICON-NOGA Hilton Hotel, 
Abuja, October,10-14,1994.
Sofoluwe, S A, National Youth Service Corps: Challenges and 
Prospects. A paper presented at the Two-Week Orientation th 
Course for the 5 Batch of the Technical Aid Corps 
Volunteers at the Cultural Centre, Calabar, Cross River 
State, Monday, October 3, 1994, 6.
Watt, N, Conference Communiqué –Towards Global Youth 
Service1994, (NYSC Archive, National Directorate 
Headquarters, Abuja: GC/94/ 21).
F. Dissertation, Thesis and Unpublished Manuscript
Odeh, G O, Nigeria NYSC''s Role in the Founding of The Gambia 
National Youth Service, 1996-2004. A PhD Dissertation, 
Department of History and International In studies, 
Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka,2019.
Odeh, G O, Issues in Dressing Code for NYSC Female Corps Member, 
(Unpublished), Department of History, Sokoto State 
University, Sokoto, 2019.
Odeh, G O, A Historical Survey of NYSC Community Development 
Scheme in Abuja, Federal Capital Territory, 1983 – 2010. M.A. 
Dissertation, Department of History, Benue State 
University, Makurdi, 2013.
Odeh, G O, NYSC Scheme and the task of Nation Building in Nigeria: 
Abuja Experience, 1983-2010 . First Draft of M A. 
Dissertation, Department of History Benue State 
University, Makurdi, 2012.
G. Journal
Odeh, G O, “NYSC's Engagement in the Development of Abuja, 
1982-2011", in Rima International Journal of Historical 
Studies:A publication of the Department of History, 
Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences, Sokoto State 
ST 
THE NYSC BEYOND THE 21 CENTURY 727
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

University, Sokoto, (1)2,2018, p.141-161.
Ceesay, H, “Small but Activist: The Gambia and West African 
Diplomacy, 1965-2015” in Tarikh: Fifty years of Independence 
in Africa, (11)1, 2018, pp.17-37.
H. Internet Source
Biggart, A, National Youth Service Policy in UK: Trends, Issues and 
Evaluation, https://link.springer.com.
Bureau, M, “Zimbabwe: National Youth Service to Return, Says 
Minister,” The Herald (Harare) 6, August, 2019. https:// 
allafrica.com.
Govern, R Mc, Zimbabwe National Youth Service Programme , 
dev.icicp.org. “Zimbabwe: The National Youth Service 
(NYS) training programme; the type of training involved; 
age of participants; whether mandatory; whether there are 
exemptions; and penalty for refusing serve or for 
d e s e r t i o n ( 2 0 0 1 - 2 0 0 6 ) ”  i n  r e f w o r l d.  h t t p s : / /  
www.refworld.org.
Langer A, and Oshodi, A T, In search of a (new) purpose? An 
analysis Ghana's National Service Scheme (NSS).https:// 
nomadit.co.uk.
Molefe, D, .Mudariki, T, Tsayang G, and Weeks, S G, 
“Maximising learning opportunities for Tirelo 
Setshaba(Botswana unique non-military national service” 
i n  R e s e a r c h  i n  P o s t - C o m p u l s o r y  E d u c a t i o n.  
https://www.tandfonline.com.
Rankopo, M, The Rise and Fall Tirelo Setshaba(Botswana's Young 
C o m m u n i t y  S e r v i c e ) :  A  P e r s o n a l  R e f l e c t i o n.  
Vosesa.org.za.Vol- no2.T..PDF.
Ringer, A, “German Obligatory Service and Changing Social 
V a l u e s ”  i n  T h a u b e r g e r ,  
https://www.aitheathauerger.com. Stroud, A, National 
Youth Service, Employability, Entrepreneurship and 
Sustainable Livelihoods: Overview of the National Youth 
Service Landscape in Sub-Saharan Africa .(2013),Accessed th
October 15 ,
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020728
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

2017. http//.www.icicp-org/wp-content/uploads/2014/04>3.
National Youth Policy , Ministry of Youth Development, 
I n d i g e n i z a t i o n  a n d  E m p o w e r m e n t ,  h t t p s : / /  
www.youthpolicy.org.
Civilian Conservation Corps, History .com.,
Civilian Conservation Corps: History. https://www.park.ca.gov.
Civilian Conservation Corps Legacy, www.ccc.legacy.org.
Peace Corps, https://www.peacecorps.org., Peace Corps/Mission/ 
History and Facts-Britannica, https://www.britannica.com.
Costa Rica Innovations in Civic Participations, www.icicp.org.
Youth Policy, United Kingdom , https://www.youthpolicy.org. 
NYSC Decree. Retrieved from, https://www.nysc.gov.ng 
“National Youth Service Corps”, Accessed June 22, 2018 
http//
:www.nysc.gov.ng.
International Youth Day , 12 August, 2019: UN Department of 
Economic and Social Affairs, https://www.un.org.
National Youth Service Brochure,-Expanded Public Works 
Programmme. www.epwp.gov.za>documents.
ST 
THE NYSC BEYOND THE 21 CENTURY 729
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020732
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

INDEX 733
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS SCHEME, 1973 - 2020734
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

INDEX 735
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT