NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NATIONAL YOUTH 
SERVICE CORPS 
AND  
SKILLS ACQUISITION 
AND ENTREPRENEURSHIP 
DEVELOPMENT  
    
 
 
 
 Editors  
Shuaibu Ibrahim 
Adam Okene Ahmed 
Bem Japhet Audu 
Maryam Hamza 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

ii 
 
 
 
 
THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS AND SKILLS 
ACQUISITION AND ENTREPRENEURSHIP DEVELOPMENT  
 
 
Copyright (c) 2021 Shuaibu Ibrahim, Adam Okene Ahmed, 
Bem Japhet Audu, Maryam Hamza 
 
 
All right reserved 
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 
stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any 
means electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, 
without prior permission of the author, who is the copyright owner. 
 
 
ISBN: 
 
Note: Views and opinions expressed in the book are entirely those of 
the chapter contributors and not that of the Editors. 
 
 
Printed and Bound in Kaduna-Nigeria. 
Using environmental sustainable paper materials by 
Pyla-Mak Press and Publishers Limited 
Kaduna, Nigeria. 
+234(0)8023633763 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

iii 
 
NOTES ON CONTRIBUTORSNOTES ON CONTRIBUTORS NOTES ON CONTRIBUTORSNOTES ON CONTRIBUTORS    
 
Abubakar Yusuf Umar, is of the Department of History, Kaduna State 
University. 
 
Anas Lawal, is of the Department of History, Kaduna State University.  
 
Bem Japhet Audu PhD, is a lecturer in the Department of History and 
War Studies, Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. 
 
Haliru Sirajo is a Lecturer in the Department of History, Bayero 
University Kano. 
 
Jamilu Ibrahim Mukhtar, is of the Department of Sociology, Federal 
University Dutse, Jigawa State, Nigeria. 
 
Jamiu Yusuf Danga, is a lecturer in the Department of History and War 
Studies, Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. 
 
 
Jibunor Udoka Victor, is of the Department of Chemistry, Ahmadu 
Bello University, Zaria.  
 
Ladi Charles Chiwar, is a lecturer with the Department of History and 
Military Studies, Nigerian Army University, Biu, Borno State. 
 
Maryam Hamza PhD, is a lecturer in the Department of History and 
War Studies, Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. 
 
Mercy Chat Adam, is of the College of Liberal Arts and Science, 
University of San Agustin, Iloilo City, Philippines  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

iv 
 
Mohammed Liman Murtala, is a lecturer in the Department of History 
and War Studies, Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. 
 
NuraIsah Zubairu is of the Department of History, Ahmadu Bello 
University, Zaria. 
 
Onuorah Onyeka Leo, is a lecturer in the Department of Political 
Science and Defence Studies, Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. 
 
Orji Ifeanyi Boniface Ph.D, is a lecturer in the Department of History 
and International Studies, Bown University Iwo. 
 
Ozinna Tochukwu Ntukogu, is a lecturer in the Department of History 
and War Studies, Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. 
 
Rabiatu Ibrahim Abdullahi, is of the Department of History and War 
Studies, Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. 
 
Suleiman Bilal Ishaq, is a lecturer in the Department of History and 
International Studies, Prince Abubakar Audu University, Anyigba, Kogi 
State.  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

v 
 
CONTENTSCONTENTS CONTENTSCONTENTS    
 
Contents - - - - - - -          v 
Preface - - - - - - -          viii 
Acknowledgment - - - - - -          xii 
Introduction  - - - - - - -          xiii 
 
1 Methodological and Theoretical Issues on Skills  
Acquisition  
Jamilu Ibrahim Mukhtar -  -  - -          1 
 
2 The Role of NYSC in Human Capacity Development in  
Nigeria Since 1973 
Anas Lawal - - - - - -          24 
 
3 Institutional Framework and the Philosophy of NYSC  
Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development 
(SAED) Initiative 
Rabiatu Ibrahim Abdullahi - - - -           42 
 
4 An Assessment of the Training Modules and Curriculum  
of SAED 
Abubakar Yusuf Umar - - - - -          60 
 
5 National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the War against  
Poverty (WAP) Agro-Entrepreneurs’ Empowerment  
Programme in Nigeria, 2009-2020 
Ozinna Tochukwu Ntukogu - - - -          89 
 
6 Loans and Credit Facilities for Socio-Economic  
Development: An Overview of the CBN Youth 
Entrepreneurship Development Program (YEDP) and  
BOI Graduate Entrepreneurship Fund (GEF) in  
Partnership with NYSC  
Haliru Sirajo and Mohammed Liman Murtala - -         120 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

vi 
 
 
7 The Role of Private Enterprises in the SAED Programme 
Abubakar Yusuf Umar - - - - -           149 
 
8 Strengthening NYSC and Private Sector Partnership on 
Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development 
Jibunor Udoka Victor - - - - -          169 
 
9 NYSC Skills Acquisition Programmes and Igbo Youth 
Empowerment in Nigeria 
Orji Ifeanyi Boniface - - - - -          189 
 
10 Skill Acquisitions and Entrepreneurship Development 
(SAED): Exploring the Trajectory through Beneficiaries 
Jamiu Yusuf Danga - - - - -          211 
 
11 The Role of National Youth Service Corps Scheme in  
the Development of Human Capacity in Nigeria 
Onuorah Onyeka Leo - - - - -          237 
 
12 National Youth Service Corps Ventures and  
Socio-Economic Development 
Suleiman Bilal Ishaq - - - - -          255 
 
13 National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs)/Sustainable Development  
Goals (SDGs) Programme in Nigeria 
NuraIsah Zubairu - - - - -          274 
 
14 National Youth   Service Corps and Sustainable  
Development in Nigeria 
Ladi Charles Chiwar - - - - -          287 
 
15 The Prospect of Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship 
Development (SAED) in Youth Empowerment in Nigeria 
Mercy Chat Adam  - - - - -          304 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

vii 
 
 
16. Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: An Overview of His 
Achievements as the18th NYSC Director-General 
Bem Japhet Audu and Maryam Hamza - - -          316 
 
Index  - - - - - - -          337 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
    
    
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

viii 
 
PREFACEPREFACE PREFACEPREFACE    
Poverty is one of the most challenging issues facing the developing 
countries with serious socio-economic and political implications, 
especially African states where growth and development in the 
continent has been stunted for long. This is because, poverty is 
connected to issues of insecurity, corruption, illiteracy, high mortality 
rate, high incidence of diseases, prostitution, high rate of violent and 
non-violent crimes and weak democratic institutions. 
For this reason, Nigerian government and policy makers have being 
trying, using different policies to create employment, empowerment 
and arrest poverty in the country. These include the Back to Land, 
National Development Plans, Indigenisation, Structural Adjustment 
Programme (SAP), Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency 
(SMEDAN), National Directorate of Employment (NDE), Farm 
Settlement Scheme (FSS), Operation Feed the Nation (OFN), Green 
Revolution, among others. All these programmes failed to create 
enough employment opportunities for the teeming Nigerian youths. 
The fundamental origin of unemployment in Nigeria lies in the 
educational curriculum devoid of entrepreneurship skills, technical and 
functional needs of the dynamic global society. It is against this 
background that the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) scheme, 
primarily established in 1973 to inculcate national cohesion and 
integration had to shoulder the responsibility of training of the youths 
in skills acquisition and entrepreneurship. The scheme started the skill 
acquisition from agricultural production, direct farm training and agro-
allied processing with the launching of the NYSC-WAP (War Against 
Poverty) accompanied by loans. In 2012, the scheme introduced the 
Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development programme 
which commence training from the NYSC orientation camp where 
about 20 enterprises are learnt. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

ix 
 
This book examines the activities, nature of training and the 
contributions of NYSC to the acquisition of entrepreneurship skills 
generally by the Nigerian youths. This book also encapsulate the local 
and international collaborations with public agencies and private 
sectors which sponsor finances, training, expertise supply of equipment 
and general needs of capacity building development to the corps 
members. Examples include the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), the 
Bank of Industry (BOI) as well as several research centers like 
International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA), among others. 
This book also underscores the performance of the NYSC scheme in 
capacity building and refocusing the mindset of the Nigerian youths 
towards job creation, entrepreneurship and self-reliance away from the 
slavery of white-collar job which are not available in the country. 
This book encompasses the framework, methodology, theories, and 
structure of the NYSC scheme in the capacity building development of 
the Nigerian youth through some of her cardinal programmes. Such 
packages where NYSC offers direct training investments, include: SAED, 
WAP, ventures and business enterprises, farm, establishments among 
others. 
It appraises the support and joint programmes of other non-
governmental and state agencies with similar visions and mandates 
like the MDGs/SDGs,Youth Entrepreneurship Development Program 
(YEDP) and BOI Graduate Entrepreneurship Fund (GEF) which are 
responsible for funding of after training projects and start up loans for 
youths to establish their choice enterprises. 
The volume finally attempted evaluation of the challenges confronting 
the NYSC Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Programmes, and 
general capacity building development for Nigerian youths appraising 
the prospects and achievements recorded so far since the inception of 
the scheme. Indeed despite the enormous issues challenging the 
progress of the skill acquisition and business or entrepreneurial 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

x 
 
development of the Nigerian youths. Several distinctive instances of 
success in some places like the Igbo youths in Lagos and Katsina are 
captured in this edition. 
Different state and non-state actors, including international 
organisations have continued to confront issues of poverty through 
various means and strategies. In fact, this was why 189 heads of states 
and governments, during the Millennium Summit of the United Nations 
(UN) in September 2000, declared to free their people from 
wretchedness, extreme poverty and their underlying causes. This 
declaration produced eight target goals known as the Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) set to be met by 2015. 
Among the goals listed, poverty and hunger eradication was the 
number one goal. It could be argued that poverty and hunger 
eradication features as the number one goal of the MDGs because of the 
strategic impact they had on development planning and 
implementation processes. Hence, the UN recognises that poverty and 
hunger eradication is the foundation upon which other development 
goals can be built. Since then, different programmes were launched 
through governmental and non-governmental institutions so as to 
ensure that this goal was achieved by 2015. However, despite the huge 
successes and achievements recorded by the MDGs, it became obvious 
that the MDGs were coming to expiration by 2015 and the 
achievements were uneven; so in 2012, member states of the UN met 
and changed the declaration from Millennium Development Goals to 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) with poverty eradication still as 
number one goal. 
Consequently, since the advent of the New Millennium, just like in other 
developing countries, Nigeria has rolled out different strategies and 
poverty alleviation schemes in her quest for development. Some of 
these schemes include Trader Money, Backward Integration, etcetera. 
However, these empowerment programmes could not stall youth 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

xi 
 
unemployment because, they were lacking in scale and scope. Most of 
these initiatives were theoretical and not youth specific but youth 
parasitic because people have embraced the culture of receiving rather 
than engaging in productive activities. For these reasons, these 
programmes had little impact considering the enormity of unemployed 
graduates and youths in the country which continues to go higher. 
The NYSC has been charged along with other duties, to empower the 
youths of Nigeria so as to alleviate poverty in the country. Hence, one of 
the major ways through which the scheme has been empowering the 
youths is through the NYSC War Against Poverty (WAP) Programme. 
This programme is aimed at training serving youth corps members in 
different agricultural entrepreneurial fields so as to prepare them for 
integration into the economy, the labour market and the 
entrepreneurial world. By so doing, the programme also creates 
employment not only for the beneficiaries of the scheme but also, the 
teeming youths that would be employed by the trained agricultural 
entrepreneurs, thereby, reducing unemployment, poverty and hunger 
in Nigeria in particular. 
The NYSC has since added to the strategy of youth empowerment by 
launching and diligently implementing the various components of the 
NYSC Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development 
Programme. Judging from the success story of the SAED programme so 
far, there is great optimism that the NYSC SCHEME is poised to actively 
engage and empower our teeming youths for self-reliance 
  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

xii 
 
ACKNOWLEDACKNOWLED ACKNOWLEDACKNOWLEDGEMGEM GEMGEMENTSENTS ENTSENTS    
It is with profound gratitude that we acknowledge God Almighty, for 
without Him, this project would not have become a reality. We 
acknowledge with gratitude the chapter contributors for agreeing to 
write well-researched articles within a limited period. Their patience 
and perseverance in the course of this project is really commendable. 
We also thank our peer reviewers for their thought-provoking 
comments on the manuscripts. This helped tremendously in improving 
the quality of the chapters. Their patience through the peer review 
process is well acknowledged and commended.  
This project also benefitted immensely from some of the research 
institutions and libraries in and around Kaduna. Worthy of mention 
here are the Library of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), 
Yakubu Gowon House, Maitama, Abuja, Arewa House Kaduna and 
National Archives Kaduna. The staff and research fellows in these 
offices were very accommodating and helpful during the course of our 
research. 
Also, our profound appreciation goes to the Director-General of NYSC, 
Brigadier General (Assoc Prof) Shuaibu Ibrahim and his Staff who gave 
us unflinching support and ensured that this project is a huge success. 
Without the DG, the project would have suffered setbacks beyond 
measure. 
We acknowledge the support received from some of our dependable 
friends and colleagues. Most of them are Research Fellows of the Centre 
for the Study of Leadership and Complex Military Operations, 
(CSLCMO) Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. They are: Dr. Onah P. 
Otumala, Jamiu Yusuf Danga, Mohammed Liman Murtala, Suleiman 
Bilal Ishaq, Jack Jeremiah, Alabi Ezekiel, Helen Noor, Blaise L. 
Archibong, Matthew Emmanuel, Abdullahi Isah, Suleiman Bashir 
Mohammed and Longe Ometere Esther. Thank you all. 
May God Bless us all. 
Shuaibu Ibrahim, Adam Okene Ahmed, Bem Japhet Audu and 
Maryam Hamza.                                   April, 2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

xiii 
 
INTRODUCTIONINTRODUCTION INTRODUCTIONINTRODUCTION    
    
Brief History of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) 
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) was established in 1973 by 
the government of General Yakubu Gowon. The history of the scheme is 
traceable to the events that took place in Nigeria towards the last half 
of 1960s. The years 1967-1970 were characterized by the Nigerian civil 
war. At the end of the war, the General Gowon administration came up 
with new policies that would promote post-conflict peace, 
reconciliation, rehabilitation and reconstruction. Consequently, the 
vital need for national unity led to the birth of the NYSC idea. The NYSC 
Scheme came into being through Decree No. 24 of 22nd May 1973. It 
states that the NYSC is being established with a view to the proper 
encouragement and development of common ties among the youths of 
Nigeria and the promotion of national unity. After 20 years of existence, 
the 1973 Decree was repealed and replaced with No. 51 of 16th June, 
1993, now referred to as the National Youth Service Corps Act, Cap. 
N84, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004. The Act is preserved by 
Section 315 (5) (a) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of 
Nigeria, 1999 (as amended), thereby, making the NYSC Act part and 
parcel of the constitution. 
According to Section 1(3) of the NYSC Act, the objectives of the Scheme 
are to:  
“(a)  inculcate discipline in Nigerian youths by instilling in 
them a tradition of industry at work and of patriotic and 
loyal service to Nigeria in any situation they may find 
themselves; 
(b) raise the moral tone of the Nigerian youths by giving 
them the opportunity to learn about higher ideals of 
nation achievements, social and cultural improvement;  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

xiv 
 
(c)  develop in Nigerian youths the attitudes of mind, 
acquired through shared experience and suitable 
training, which will make them more amenable to 
mobilization in the national interest;  
(d)  enable Nigerian youths acquire the spirit of self-reliance 
by encouraging them to develop skills for self-
employment;  
(e)  contribute to the accelerated growth of the national 
economy;  
(f)  develop common ties among the Nigerian youths and 
promote national unity and integration;  
(g) remove prejudices, eliminate ignorance and confirm at 
first hand the many similarities among Nigerians of all 
ethnic groups; and  
(h)  develop a sense of corporate existence and common 
destiny of the people of Nigeria.” 
In order to achieve the objectives stated above, Section 1(4) of the 
NYSC Act provides that the Scheme shall ensure: 
“(a)  the equitable distribution of members of the service 
corps and the effective utilization of their skills in area 
of national needs;  
(b)  that are far as possible, Nigerian youths are assigned to 
jobs in States other than their States of origin;  
(c)  that such group of Nigerian youths assigned to work 
together is as representative of Nigeria as far as 
possible; 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

xv 
 
 (d)  that the Nigerian youths are exposed to the mode of 
living of the people in different parts of Nigeria. 
(e)  the Nigerian youths are encouraged to eschew religious 
intolerance by accommodating religious differences;  
(f) the members of the service corps are encouraged to 
seek a year for their one year national service, career 
employment all over Nigeria, thus promoting the free 
movement of labour; 
(g)  that employers are induced partly though their 
experience with members of the service corps to 
employ more readily and on a permanent basis, 
qualified Nigerians, irrespective of the States or origin.” 
Basically, the aims and objectives of the NYSC is to reinforce 
institutional efficiency and effectiveness as well as youth development 
in the country. It is accepted in several quarters that NYSC is a viable 
platform for the transitioning of youths into self-reliant adults and the 
improvement of general welfare and development. The NYSC 
programme has since inception facilitated steady and effective supply 
and distribution of skilled manpower, breaking of social and cultural 
barriers as well as the building of friendly bridges across ethno-
linguistic boundaries. It has also assisted in the promotion of values, 
national unity and development, rekindled interest in neglected but 
vital areas of national development and promoted leadership qualities 
in the youths. The Scheme has four (4) cardinal programmes which are: 
Mobilisation/Orientation, Primary Assignment, Community 
Development Service and Winding-Up/Passing- Out Exercise. 
The maximum age requirement for youths under the scheme is thirty 
(30) years old. They are also engaged in community development 
programmes and activities. According to Section 2(2) of the NYSC Act, 
the only groups of youth exempted are those that have served in the 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

xvi 
 
Armed forces or the Nigerian Police for a period of more than nine (9) 
months or in the security agencies, those over thirty (30) years of age 
and those conferred with National Honours. In addition, the choice of 
youths above every other age group was based on the fact that they are 
considered the most active change agents needed in building a united 
Nigeria, and a way of achieving this is for the youths to imbibe and 
nurture a sense of common belonging and national consciousness 
which would transcend political, social, state and ethnic loyalties. 
At the onset of the NYSC in 1973, only 2,346 graduates were mobilized. 
However, judging by the evolvement of the Scheme, there has been a 
phenomenal increase in the number of graduates that are participating 
annually. NYSC is capable of bringing out the best qualities in Nigerian 
youth and imparting in them the right attitude and value for nation 
building that serves as catalyst to national development, sense of pride 
and fulfillment of its participating graduate youths. The criteria 
observed in the deployment of Corps members include:   
• the equality of states,  
• ability of states to absorb the service of participants,  
• posting based on concessional considerations (marital and 
health grounds), posting on demand from various federal 
government establishments,  
• the supportive role of a government is also increasingly 
becoming a factor in the placement of corps members,  
• the deployment of corps members has retained its traditional 
process with the majority of corps members going to the 
classrooms. 
The Scheme’s presence is felt and noticed in all the LGAs in the country, 
creating higher emphasis in the rural and grass root development in 
line with its objectives since inception.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Methodological and Theoretical Issues on Skills Acquisition 
1 
 
 11 11    
    Methodological and Theoretical Issues on Skills 
Acquisition 
  
 
Jamilu Ibrahim Mukhtar 
 
 
Introduction 
From a cursory look at the foundational work of Byan and Harter in 
1899 1 and subsequent literature on skill acquisition, the subject is said 
to be a century’s old area. Paradoxically, however, skill acquisition is 
one of the few areas that received less methodological and theoretical 
contributions. But the availability of body of literature on 
                                                           1Anglim, JeromyKyram, 2011,  p. 1 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                Jamilu Ibrahim Mukhtar 
2 
 
entrepreneurship whose theoretical developments (Schumpeter2, 
Ahmed and McQuaid3, Bula4 can be related to skills acquisition 
provides an opportunity for methodological and theoretical analysis, 
especially in the Nigerian context. Irrespective of the various 
conceptual views of entrepreneurship-as an innovation, creativity, risk-
taking, ownership of a company or an enterprise5, etc. The basis for 
classifying skills acquisition as an aspect of entrepreneurship in Nigeria 
is the fact that most of the activities upon which Nigerian youths are 
expected to acquire skills in are technical vocational education and 
training (TVET)6 or vocational business education (VBE)7  areas, which 
are similar to economic aspect of skills acquisition (e.g. tailoring, 
fashion and design, embroidery, crafts work, bead-making, weaving, 
paint work, soap-making, and horticulture, taxi driving, among others). 
The technical vocational education and training (TVET) areas differ in 
some respects form the social or recreational (such as learning public 
speech, ski boarding, roller skate, bike riding, chase game, and 
gymnastics).  
To accommodate each type of skill, scholars in the area of educational 
psychology have divided skill into three broad types: cognitive, 
affective and motor skill acquisition. Cognitive skill acquisition involves 
receiving knowledge and information. Affective skill acquisition 
involves the process of developing self-esteem and fair play. Motor skill 
learning is acquiring physical motor skills as in sport and 
gymnastics.8For a systematic learning and proficient application of any 
                                                           2as cited in Grebel, Pyka and Hanusch, 2001 3 Ahmed andMcQuaid, 2005 4Bula, 2012 5See Barringer, B.R. and R.D. Ireland.” Entrepreneurship: Successfully launching 
new ventures”, 
Pearson Harlow, UK. 6 Umar, M. A. P.116.  7Udo, Magnus,  2015 8Saltzman and Munhall, 1992 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Methodological and Theoretical Issues on Skills Acquisition 
3 
 
acquired skills, methods and models are essential. This is because 
students are expected to develop and enhance skills and capabilities in 
critical and analytical thinking, information retrieval, evaluation and 
problem solving; skills in conducting and evaluating research that are 
helpful to students’ ongoing personal and professional lives; methods 
and theories that have been linked to positive learning outcomes for 
students and learners.9  
In view of this background, the paper will form a discourse on the 
methodological and theoretical issues on skills acquisition. The paper is 
divided into six sections, with this introductory remark representing 
the first section. Section two is about conceptual clarifications, Section 
three discusses the convergence between methodological and 
theoretical issues in skills acquisition. Section four involves the 
practicality of the methods and theories of skills considerations. 
Section five concludes the paper. 
 
Conceptual Clarifications  
This section deals with the clarification of key concepts: skills 
acquisition, methodology, and theory based on review of previous work 
and working definition for them. 
 
Skills Acquisition: Skill is the result of deliberate, consistent practice, 
and in early-stage practice, quantity and speed trump absolute 
quality.10 The faster and more often you practice, the more rapidly 
you’ll acquire the skill. Efforts to improve the standard and quality of 
acquisition of skills and competencies inherent in Vocational Business 
Education (VBE) courses to maximum level seems to be slowed down 
by a number of factors such as VBE students low interest in the skills 
and competencies, curriculum structure, inadequate personnel, 
                                                           9Akuegwu, Basil and Nwi-ue, Felix, 2018, p. 34 10 Kauffman, 2013 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                Jamilu Ibrahim Mukhtar 
4 
 
inadequate equipment and facilities for the teaching and learning of the 
skills, inadequate material resources for training and others. 
The emphasis on economically oriented skills acquisition in Nigeria is 
as a result of the economic condition of the country, while the social 
and recreational activities skill acquisitions are more common in 
economically advanced countries, like the United States and Japan. 
Because of economically driving skills in Nigeria and the socially driven 
skills in other parts of the world, it is difficult to have a single definition 
of the concept of skills acquisition in this context. Consequently, this 
paper will use Nduka-Ozo’s deliberate bias by labeling skills acquisition 
as “entrepreneurship skills acquisition.”11 However, the present study 
differ from Nduka-Ozo’s entrepreneurship skills acquisition, because 
her concept of entrepreneurship skills acquisition did not recognise the 
recreational activities which can also be creatively used as profit-
making enterprises like all other entrepreneurial activities.12 
Skill acquisition, as defined by Idoko is the form of training by 
individuals or group of individuals that can lead to acquisition of 
knowledge for self-sustenance.13It involves the training of people in 
different fields of trade under a legal agreement between the trainers 
and the trainees for certain duration and under certain conditions. Skill 
acquisition requires practicing the skill in question. It requires 
significant periods of sustained, focused concentration, creativity, 
flexibility, and the freedom to set your own standard of success14. 
Methodology: Methodology is often used arbitrarily, which can lead to 
a sort of methodological potpourri. Subsequently, one seldom hears 
questions asking, for instance, what a certain methodology has to do 
with a certain type of research, what is the nature of the question and 
                                                           11Nduka-Ozo, Stella Ngozi, 2017 12 Ibid, p. 978  13Idoko, Cletus Usman, 2014 p.51 14Kaufman, Josh,  2013, P. 19 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Methodological and Theoretical Issues on Skills Acquisition 
5 
 
what (core) theoretical perspectives are used to explore and 
conceptualise the issue at hand. As a result, the importance of defining 
the nature and possible contribution of a specific kind of research is 
often ignored. It is not surprising that in many studies – directed either 
at regular students, teachers or doctoral students – methodology forms 
a difficult, and preferably avoided, subject of conversation. In academic 
life in general or at least in carrying out a decent piece of research, 
proper and transparent choices are the key to success15. 
This paper will adopt Jonker and Pennink’s view of methodology as a 
kind of ‘action reading’ or more precisely as, an ‘action repertoire.’ 
According to Jonker and Pennink, action reading means: preparing a 
type of repertoire, based on a set of premises, (theoretical) 
considerations and practical conditions, according to which the 
researcher structures the logic of his research given the question he 
wants to answer. An implicit yet important assumption here is that the 
researcher should be able to justify the reasons for this choice of a 
specific (research) approach and make sensible choices based on the 
different requirements of a particular question. There are 
methodologies that steer action for all kinds of activities (both mentally 
and literally) inside as well as outside organisations. So a methodology 
is not only about doing research, it is about acting.16 
The working definition of methodology in this paper is, therefore, the 
set of techniques, principles and procedures for accomplishing certain 
task, usually from theoretical to practical. There are various ways or 
methods of knowing the unknowns, to answer the inquisitiveness. 
Among the various methods, the scientific method is probably the most 
widely used. The scientific process aims at describing explanation, and 
understating, of various known or unknown phenomena in nature. 
Thus, it increases the knowledge of human beings in multifarious ways. 
                                                           15Jonker, Jen and Pennink, Bartjan, 2010, p. 21 16Jonker, Jan and Pennink, Bartjan,2010, P.22  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                Jamilu Ibrahim Mukhtar 
6 
 
Any scientific process may have three basic steps: systematic 
observation, classification, and interpretation. Scientific methods are 
characterized by their objectivity, generality, verifiability, and 
creditability. Objectivity refers to procedures and findings not 
influenced by personal feelings, values, and beliefs of a researcher. 
Thus, objectivity in a scientific process ensures an unbiased, 
unprejudiced, and impersonal study17. 
Theory: Theory is a systematic explanation of social and natural 
phenomena. It is an abstract statement that seeks to understand, 
explain and predict phenomena. Key defines theory as: “a systematic 
attempt to understand what is observable in the world. It creates order 
and logic from observable facts that appear tumultuous and 
disconnected.”18A good theory would: “identify relevant variables and 
the connections between them in a way that testable hypotheses can be 
generated and empirically established” or: “… a statement of relations 
among concepts within a set of boundary assumptions and 
constraints.”19An important part of theory is the demonstration of 
relations between variables within a conceptual framework. Please 
observe the similarity here between what defines a model and a theory! 
A ‘good’ theory in the social sciences should meet the following criteria: 
it must be (a) falsifiable, (b) logically coherent, (c) operationalisable, 
(d) useful and (e) possess sufficient explanatory power in terms of 
scope and comprehensiveness. Key argued that “good theory should 
have both explanatory value as well as predictive value”. Good theory, 
according to Labovitz and Hagedorn,20 must also be supported by a 
plausible or logical explanation to suggest how and why things happen. 
                                                           17Sahu, Pradip Kumar, 2013 18Key, S. Toward a new theory of the firm: a critique of ‘stakeholder’ theory. 
Management 
Decision, 37(4) (1999), pp. 770, 317. 19Bacharach 1989, p. 496 20 As cited in Jonker, Jan and Pennink, Bartjan,2010  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Methodological and Theoretical Issues on Skills Acquisition 
7 
 
A solid theory should also include the underlying logic and values that 
explain the observable phenomenon. 
Conceptual models are inescapably based on theory or at least 
theoretical notions. Without this theoretical input, it is impossible to 
make a focused construction of a specific reality up front. Theory tells 
you where to look, what to look for and how to look. It is simply 
impossible to observe any aspect of reality, any phenomenon or 
problem without having a kind of theory in mind. That might sound 
quite conclusive by what we see, what we think is important, what we 
select for further inspection: it is all driven by theory. Without theory 
we cannot make meaningful sense of empirically generated data or 
distinguish useful results. Without it empirical research merely 
becomes ‘data-dredging’.21Therefore the nexus between methodology 
and theory, as well as theoretical models is inherent and inseparable.22 
 
Methodological and Theoretical Issues in Skills Acquisition:  
The Convergence 
The paper will discuss the methodological and theoretical issues in 
skills acquisition in this section with the point of convergence between 
theory and method which are manifest if implemented. As an outcome 
of his review of several theories and models of skills acquisition, 
Anglim23 maintained that a body of research has emerged showing four 
different theoretical positions, thus: (a)most tasks have a wide range of 
possible strategies (b) some strategies are more effective than others; 
(c) more effective strategies tend to be used with practice; and (d) 
strategy shift, although commonly gradual, is sometimes abrupt. 
 
                                                           21Jonker, Jan and Pennink, Bartjan,2010 22Dorward, Andrew, 2014, p.1 23Anglim, 2011 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                Jamilu Ibrahim Mukhtar 
8 
 
Basically, skills acquisition owed so much to practice and performance. 
Practice can refer to many activities. Within the skill acquisition 
literature, practice tends to refer to the effect of repeated task 
performance. Such a definition is distinct from the everyday use of the 
term which often includes adaptive training and external instruction. In 
skill acquisition studies, practice is commonly operationalised as either 
the amount of time spent practicing the task or the number of practice 
trials, where little has been made in the literature of this distinction. 
The focus on repetition leads to research designs where initial 
instructions are provided but typically no additional instructions are 
given once practice is initiated24. 
Task performance has been defined and measured in many different 
ways. At an abstract level task performance is any evaluative attribute 
of task execution. More typically, task performance is operationalised 
as completion time, accuracy, quality, or attainment. Attainment 
measures are merely a multiple of the inverse of completion time. As 
mentioned in the introduction, this thesis focuses on tasks where 
performance is operationalised as task completion time. This includes 
both reaction time when responding to stimuli, and also task 
completion time on tasks involving multiple steps. Task completion 
time is applicable to a large number of tasks where it is speed of 
performance which is the main attribute that distinguishes levels of 
performance. Focus on task completion time also provides a link with 
the general chronometric aims of cognitive science. 
Together, the relationship between practice and performance is known 
as the learning curve, reflecting the seemingly lawful improvement in 
performance that occurs with practice. Such a relationship can and has 
been modelled at both the individual-level and the group-level. 
Individual-level modelling occurs when the raw data is the 
performance over practice for an individual. Individual-level parameter 
                                                           24Udo, Magnus, 2015, p. 28 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Methodological and Theoretical Issues on Skills Acquisition 
9 
 
estimation may be done separately for each individual or parameters 
can be estimated simultaneously using approaches such as nonlinear 
multilevel modelling. Group-level modelling occurs when raw data is 
averaged over participants, typically using the mean, for a given trial or 
block of trial25. 
Learning the basics is a constant struggle. As learner practices motor 
activity, her muscle coordination becomes more automatic and 
synchronised with her mental processes. She gains the ability to pay 
more attention to the subtle elements of what is being done, and she 
learns to adjust her approach to the feedback she gets from the 
environment. She starts doing more of what works, and less of what 
does not. Eventually, she is able to perform without conscious attention 
to every detail. In academic literature, this general process is called the 
“three-stage model” of skill acquisition, and it applies to both physical 
and mental skills. The three stages are: 
1.  Cognitive (Early) Stage—understanding what you’re trying to 
do, researching, thinking about the process, and breaking the 
skill into manageable parts. 
2.  Associative (Intermediate) Stage—practicing the task, 
noticing environmental feedback, and adjusting your approach 
based on that feedback. 
3.  Autonomous (Late) Stage—performing the skill effectively and 
efficiently without thinking about it or paying unnecessary 
attention to the process. 
To acquire research skills, Badke (2012) identified a number of abilities 
which graduate students/Corps members need to possess:  
a.  Understanding the nature of the information resources 
available in their discipline.  
b.  Stating research problems clearly and concisely  
c.  Knowledge of research databases e.g. google 
                                                           25Anglim, 2001 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                Jamilu Ibrahim Mukhtar 
10 
 
d.  Capabilities for critical thinking to be honed in realistic 
research situations.  
Furthermore, acquiring research skills may be enhanced by addressing 
and improving learners’ perceptions of their research environment as 
well as raising their awareness of variations of conceptions and 
approaches to research. This is institutional responsibility, which ought 
to be seriously undertaken to achieve the desired goals and 
objectives.26 
 
Kauffman’s Ten (10) Methods of Skill Acquisition 
Kauffman gave a checklist of ten (10) methods of skill acquisition, 
which he referred to as ways to cultivate a “temporary obsession”, in 
acquiring any new skill. Rapid skill acquisition happens naturally when 
you become so curious and interested in something that other concerns 
fall away, at least temporarily.27Think of these principles as ways to 
identify a skill worthy of temporary obsession, focus on it, and remove 
barriers that distract you from effective practice. Here are the ten 
major principles of rapid skill acquisition: 
1. Choose a Lovable Project. 
Rapid skill acquisition is guided by choosing an activity the learner 
loves the most. The more excited learners are about the skill they want 
to acquire, the more quickly they will acquire it. Karl Popper has 
popularised the idea of scientific falsifiability, which in layman’s terms 
means “if you cannot potentially prove something wrong via 
observation or experiment, it is not actually science”28.Popper said that 
“the best thing that can happen to a human being is to find a problem, 
to fall in love with that problem, and to live trying to solve that 
problem, unless another problem even more lovable appears.”Kaufman 
                                                           26Akuegwu, Basil and Nwi-ue, Felix, 2018, 31-32. 27Kauffman, Josh. 2013, p. 22 28Kaufman, Josh. 2013, p. 23. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Methodological and Theoretical Issues on Skills Acquisition 
11 
 
argued that if you want a formula for living a satisfying, productive life, 
you cannot go wrong with that one. 
In practice, finding a lovable project is an individual matter. For 
example, an individual may not love to learn music on her current list 
of skills to acquire because she has no urgent need to learn it at the 
moment, while she has many other projects she is more interested in 
learning, such as learning football and public speech. Amongst the list 
of lovable project, there is also prime skill (that is, one’s most lovable 
project). If you focus on acquiring your prime skill before anything else, 
you will acquire it in far less time. You naturally learn things you care 
about faster than things you do not.  
2. Focus Energy on One Skill at a Time 
In practice, acquiring new skills requires concentrated time and 
focused attention. One of the common mistakes made is when 
acquiring new skills people attempt to acquire many skills at the same 
time. If a learner has only an hour or two each day to devote to practice 
and learning, and he spreads that time and energy across twenty 
different skills, no individual skill is going to receive enough time and 
energy to generate noticeable improvement29A trainee should be 
exposed to only one new skill they wish to acquire and put all focus and 
energy into acquiring that skill, and place other skills on temporary 
hold. For example, a Corps member that started learning software work 
should not combine it with phone repair, fish production, and 
carpentry at the same time. Doing so will only make him “jack of all 
trade, master of none”. 
3. Define Your Target Performance Level. 
Your target performance level is a brief statement of what your desired 
level of skill looks like. It can be a single sentence description of what a 
learner/Corps member is trying to achieve, and can do at the end. The 
                                                           29 Kaufman, Josh 2013, p. 24 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                Jamilu Ibrahim Mukhtar 
12 
 
more specific their target performance level is, the more meaningful it 
is. Defining one’s target performance level permits an imagination what 
is to be done and how to perform it in a certain way. Once you 
determine exactly how good you want or need to be, it is easier to 
figure out how to get there. In other words, individuals should 
articulate their problem and how to address it. Charles Kettering, the 
inventor of the electric automobile ignition system noted” A problem 
well stated is a problem half solved.”30How you define your target 
performance level depends on why you chose to acquire the skill in the 
first place. Once you reach your initial target performance level, you 
can always choose to keep going if you wish. The best target 
performance levels seem just out of reach, not out of the realm of 
possibility. As a rule, the more relaxed your target performance level, 
the more rapidly you can acquire the associated skill. 
4. Deconstruct the Skill into Sub-skills. 
Most of the skills people acquire are actually bundles of smaller sub-
skills. Therefore when someone has identified a skill, the next step is to 
deconstruct it down into the smallest possible parts. For example, 
playing golf is a skill that has many sub-components: choosing the 
correct club, driving off the tee, hitting out of a bunker, putting, et 
cetera. Once the skill is deconstructed sufficiently, it is much easier to 
identify which sub-skills appear to be most important. By focusing on 
the critical sub-skills first, you will make more progress with less effort. 
Deconstructing a skill also makes it easier to avoid feeling 
overwhelmed. You do not have to practice all parts of a skill at the same 
time. Instead, it is more effective to focus on the sub-skills that promise 
the most dramatic overall returns. 
It also allows you to identify the parts of the skill that are not important 
for beginning practitioners. By eliminating the non-critical sub-skills or 
                                                           30 Cited in Kauffman, 2013, p. 25 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Methodological and Theoretical Issues on Skills Acquisition 
13 
 
techniques early in the process, you will be able to invest more of your 
time and energy mastering the critical sub-skills first. 
5. Obtain Critical Tools 
Most skills have prerequisites to practice and performance. What tools, 
components, and environment you can practice efficiently? How can 
you obtain the very best tools you can find and afford? Learning 
tailoring is difficult without sewing machine or learning how to pilot a 
helicopter without access to one. Taking a moment to identify critical 
tools before you start practicing saves precious time. By ensuring you 
have the resources you need before you begin; you maximise your 
practice time and skills can be acquired easily by Corps members. 
 
6. Eliminate Barriers to Practice 
There are many things that can get in the way of practice, which makes 
it difficult to acquire any skill. These barriers can be anything from 
significant pre-practice effort; intermittent resource availability; 
environmental distractions and emotional blocks. Significant pre-
practice effort includes misplacing your tools, not acquiring the correct 
tools before practicing, or skipping setup requirements. Intermittent 
resource availability is using borrowed equipment or relying on a 
resource that has limited operating hours. They include television, 
ringing phones, and incoming e-mail. Emotional blocks comprise of 
fear, doubt, and embarrassment. Every single one of these elements 
makes it harder to start practicing, and therefore decreases Corps 
member acquisition speed. We only have so much willpower at our 
disposal each day, and it is best to use that willpower wisely. The best 
way to invest willpower in support of skill acquisition is to use it to 
remove these soft barriers to practice. By rearranging your 
environment to make it as easy as possible to start practicing, you will 
acquire the skill in far less time.31 
                                                           31 Kauffman, 2013 p.29 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                Jamilu Ibrahim Mukhtar 
14 
 
7. Make Dedicated Time for Practice 
The time you spend acquiring new skill must come from somewhere. 
Unfortunately, people tend to acquire new skills and keep doing many 
of the other activities they enjoy, like watching TV, playing video 
games, et cetera. Finding time is a myth. No one ever “finds” time for 
anything, in the sense of miraculously discovering some bank of extra 
time, like finding a twenty-dollar bill you accidentally left in your coat 
pocket. If you rely on finding time to do something, it will never be 
done, you must create time. You have 24 hours to invest each day: 
1,440 minutes, no more or less. You will never have more time. If you 
sleep approximately 8 hours a day, you have 16 hours at your disposal. 
Some of those hours will be used to take care of yourself and your loved 
ones. Others will be used for work.32 
Whatever you have left over is the time you have for skill acquisition. If 
you want to improve your skills as quickly as possible, the larger the 
dedicated blocks of time you can set aside, the better. The best 
approach to making time for skill acquisition is to identify low-value 
uses of time, then choose to eliminate them. As an experiment, 
Kauffman recommended keeping a simple log of how you spend your 
time for a few days. All you need is a notebook. 
The results of this time log is mysterious: if you make a few tough 
choices to cut low-value uses of time, you will have much more time for 
skill acquisition. Thus, Kauffman stated that the more time you have to 
devote each day, the less total time it will take to acquire new skills. He 
recommended making time for at least ninety minutes of practice each 
day by cutting low-value activities as much as possible. 
Kauffman also recommend pre-committing to completing at least 
twenty hours of practice. Once you start, you must keep practicing until 
you hit the twenty-hour mark. If you get stuck, keep pushing: you 
                                                           32 Kauffman, 2013 p.30 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Methodological and Theoretical Issues on Skills Acquisition 
15 
 
cannot stop until you reach your target performance level or invest 
twenty hours. If you’re not willing to invest at least twenty hours up 
front, choose another skill to acquire. The reason for this is that the 
early parts of the skill acquisition process usually feel harder than they 
really are. Instead of giving up when you experience the slightest 
difficulty, recommitting to twenty hours makes it easier to persist. 
Think of this approach as an exercise in grit: you’re not going to let 
some silly little issue stop you from doing what you have decided you 
really want to do. You will either solve the problem; you will be in a 
better position to decide how to proceed. 
8. Create Fast Feedback Loops 
“Fast feedback” means getting accurate information about how well 
you are performing as quickly as possible. The longer it takes to get 
accurate feedback, the longer it will take to acquire the skill. Take the 
art of cheese making, for example. The subtle chemical processes that 
create fine cheeses often take months or years to complete, and there’s 
no way to rush the process without ruining the result. If it takes six 
months to determine whether or not your cheese is any good, the delay 
in feedback makes it difficult to acquire the skill quickly. Fast feedback 
naturally leads to rapid skill acquisition. If feedback arrives 
immediately, or with a very short delay, it is much easier to connect 
that information to your actions and make the appropriate 
adjustments. 
The best forms of feedback are near instantaneous. That is why skills 
like programming can become mildly addictive: you make a change, 
and a few milliseconds later the computer tells you whether or not it 
worked. If you don’t like the feedback (“my program crashed!”), make a 
change and try again. There are many potential sources of useful 
feedback. Coaches are not the only source of fast feedback. Capture 
devices, like video cameras, can help you watch yourself as you 
perform. Tools like computer programs, training aides, and other 
devices can immediately indicate when you make a mistake or 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                Jamilu Ibrahim Mukhtar 
16 
 
something is amiss. The more sources of fast feedback you integrate 
into your practice, the faster you’ll acquire the skill. 
9. Practice by the Clock in Short Bursts. 
Our minds are built to learn, to notice patterns, simulate potential 
courses of action, and figure out what is probably going to happen next. 
They are not built to accurately estimate time how long something will 
take, or how much time you have spent doing something. In the early 
phases of practicing a new skill, it is very easy to overestimate how 
much time you have spent practicing. When you are not good (and you 
know it), time seems to a crawl, and it feels like you have been 
practicing for a longer period of time than you actually have. 
The solution for this is to practice by the decent countdown 
timer/clock, set it for twenty minutes. There is only one rule: once you 
start the timer, you must practice until it goes off. No exceptions. This 
simple technique will make it easier to complete longer periods of 
sustained practice, even when you get tired or frustrated. The more 
periods of sustained practice you complete, the faster your skill 
acquisition. Set aside time for three to five practice sessions a day, and 
you will see major progress in a very short period. 
10. Emphasize Quantity and Speed 
When you begin to acquire a new skill, it is tempting to focus on 
practicing perfectly, which is a recipe for frustration. Your 
performance, cannot take you close to perfection immediately. Instead 
of trying to be perfect, focus on practicing quickly as you can, while 
maintaining “good enough” form. David Bayles and Ted Orland share a 
very interesting anecdote on the value of volume: 
The ceramics teacher announced on opening day that 
he was dividing the class into two groups. All those 
on the left side of the studio, he said, would be graded 
solely on the quantity of work they produced, all 
those on the right solely on its quality. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Methodological and Theoretical Issues on Skills Acquisition 
17 
 
His procedure was simple: on the final day of class he 
would bring in his bathroom scales and weigh the 
work of the “quantity” group: fifty pounds of pots 
rated an A, forty pounds a B, and so on. Those being 
graded on “quality,” however, needed to produce 
only one pot—albeit a perfect one—to get an A.33 
Well, come grading time a curious fact emerged: the works of highest 
quality were all produced by the group being graded for quantity. It 
seems that while the “quantity” group was busily churning out piles of 
work and learning from their mistakes, the “quality” group had sat 
theorising about perfection, and in the end had little more to show for 
their efforts than grandiose theories and a pile of dead clay. 
That is not to say that you should ignore good form while practicing. 
Some skills, particularly skills that require physical actions or motions, 
entail certain quality of form to perform well. Learners/Corps members 
should ensure they are practicing using form that is good enough to 
satisfy their target performance level. Once they are practicing in good 
form at least 80 to 90 percent of the time, turn up the speed for faster 
skill acquisition. That’s it: ten simple principles that will ensure you go 
about practicing your prime skill in the most efficient and effective way 
possible.34 
Many of these principles may strike you as common sense, and that’s 
okay. Remember: simply knowing these principles is not enough. You 
must actually use them to reap the rewards35. 
 
 
                                                           33 Kauffman, 2013, P.32  34Kaufman, Josh,  2013, p. 32 35Kaufman, Josh,  2013. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                Jamilu Ibrahim Mukhtar 
18 
 
Methods and Theories of Skills: Practical Considerations  
It is widely agreed in the field of psychology that all brains are capable 
of improving skills and capabilities with practice. Genetic 
predispositions exist, but they are very minor compared to the power 
of focused, intelligent practice. We can improve any skill, provided we 
are willing to practice. Practicality arising from methodological 
instructions and theoretical assumption is a similitude of policy 
implementation informed by policy recommendations. In other words, 
theoretical explanation of skills acquisition is a policy tool upon which 
youths (NYSC) are expected to translate into action for their individual 
development and by implication to contribute to national development. 
In line with the above assertion, Okorie and Ezeji36 argued that the 
acquisition of the vocational skills is a means of enhancing the 
productive power of many nations. On this basis, the Nigerian society 
should encourage citizens to get equipped and contribute effectively to 
the development of the country.  
The acquisition of such practical skills is important because when 
efficient and skillful hands are employed in any fields of human 
endeavours, high productivity is usually achieved. Economically, 
maximum skills acquisition by VBE students and Corps members will 
help to enrich the Nigerian society and in this way, tend to make 
possible sustainable development. Okorie and Ezeji37 observed that a 
rich nation is one that is capable of meeting the economic, social, moral 
and political needs of the citizenry. Nigeria as a nation will enjoy 
sustainable development if VBE students/Corps members in particular 
all other students in general acquire maximum skills acquisition and 
competencies in their specialties.38 
                                                           36 Cited in Udo, Magnus, 2015 p. 28  37 Ibid p. 28 38Udo, Magnus 2015, 28 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Methodological and Theoretical Issues on Skills Acquisition 
19 
 
One important thing about skill acquisition is that the students must be 
taught to appreciate the fact that they are capable of acquiring new 
skills. Individuals might believe their skills are fixed- that they are 
either good or talented/gifted at something or they are not. Dweck(as 
cited in Kauffman)mention a wide body of research that indicates 
individuals commonly hold one of two views of how their minds 
work.39According to Dweck, people with a “fixed” mind-set assume that 
skills and talents are innate, that they are born with certain abilities 
that are what they are. If a person with a fixed mind-set is “not good at 
math,” then extra effort practicing math is a waste. There are people 
with a “growth” mind-set, on the other extreme, who assume that skills 
and abilities grow with practice and persistence. If a person with a 
growth mind-set gets a few math problems wrong, it is not because 
they are not good in mathematics; it is because they have not practiced 
enough. With persistence and practice, they believe they will master 
the technique over time. 
Research skills assist graduate students to critically investigate issues 
and where appropriate, generate and evaluate relevant data, form and 
test ideas, theories and hypotheses, and successfully navigate their way 
through the sea of information that characterises the information age. 
The essence of this is to enable students/Corps members build strong 
and virile intellectual base and practically connect research frontiers to 
their own learning both academically and real life situations. 
Furthermore, politically, practical skills acquisition tends to promote 
personal and national greatness. At the personal level, Kauffman 
narrated his success story after adventuring into business skill 
acquisition, thus: 
…why I decided to skip graduate-level business 
education in favor of teaching myself the principles of 
modern business practice and starting my own 
                                                           39 Ibid, p. P. 19 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                Jamilu Ibrahim Mukhtar 
20 
 
company. By avoiding business school, and spending 
my time actually building businesses instead, I learned 
a ton, and saved over $150,000 in the process. Given 
what I wanted to accomplish, dedicating time to 
business skill acquisition on my own was better than 
business school in every respect.40 
Okorie and Ezeji (1988) pointed out that the behaviour of an individual 
in a society or the behaviour of a nation in a community of nations may 
be influenced by the skills and competencies possessed by that 
individual or nation. Socially, the acquisition of maximum skills helps a 
person to provide amusement, happiness, love, affection and 
enjoyment to other individuals as well as the entire nation at large. 
Many of the VBE students have very low interest in the skills and 
competencies inherent in VBE courses. This has made them to develop 
poor attitudes towards the skills and competencies inherent in the VBE 
courses. Because of such negative attitudes, the personal interest and 
willingness to concentrate and acquire maximum level of skills 
expected of them are not there. One of such negative attitudes is failure 
to sit down and make wise use of their time and energy in acquiring 
maximum skills for self-development and fulfillment. This is because 
time is a critical matter in everybody’s lives. Consequently, the VBE 
students fail to find time to engage themselves in practical exercises in 
courses such as in accounting, typewriting, word-processing, and 
shorthand to mention just but a few. When assignments and home 
work are given in any of the subjects listed above, it is often discovered 
that about ninety percent of the VBE students in the class did not find 
time and/or take time to do it. Such students fail to take their studies 
seriously as they often come late to the lesson and even when they 
know that they are terribly late, yet they would be listening to pop 
music/other music or talking to people with their phones. A careful 
                                                           40Kaufman, Josh,  2013,P.19 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Methodological and Theoretical Issues on Skills Acquisition 
21 
 
examination shows that they put more efforts in playing with their 
mobile phones and in making calls than they do with their studies.41 In 
a nutshell, skills acquisition is an important aspect of the Nigerian 
economy as it can generate job opportunities and enhance national 
development.  
 
Conclusion 
The chapter discussed the methodological and theoretical issues on 
skills acquisition. In conclusion, skills acquisition in Nigeria cannot 
contribute to the development of the Nigeria educational and economic 
systems without deliberate effort at designing methodology and 
developing theories for understanding the problem as well as models 
for proper analysis and practices on skills acquisition. Lack of adequate 
methodological and theoretical literature on skills acquisition was the 
reason why the chapter emphasised on the nexus between skills 
acquisition and entrepreneurship. Also, efforts should be geared 
towards achieving desired results through entrenching procedures for 
effective teaching and learning, encouraging students/Corps members 
and motivating their teachers. Finally, it is suggesting further studies in 
areas related to methodology and theories of skills acquisition, but the 
focus should be more on the feasibility for developing indigenous 
theories and methods on skills acquisition in Nigeria. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           41Udo, Magnus, 2015 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                Jamilu Ibrahim Mukhtar 
22 
 
References 
 
Akuegwu, Basil and Nwi-ue, Felix. Assessing graduate students’ 
acquisition of research skills in  universities in Cross 
River State Nigeria for development of the total person. 
European  Journal of Research and Reflection in Educational 
Sciences, 6 No. 5 (2018):29-44. 
Anglim, Jeromy Kyram. Strategies in skill acquisition: reconciling 
continuous models of the  learning curve with abrupt 
strategy shifts. Published PhD Thesis, Department of 
Psychological Sciences, The University of Melbourne, 2011. 
Barringer, B.R. and R.D. Ireland. Entrepreneurship: Successfully 
launching new ventures.  Pearson Harlow, UK, 2016. 
Bula, H. O. “Evolution and Theories of Entrepreneurship: A Critical 
Review on the  Kenyan Perspective”. International Journal of 
Business and Commerce, 1 no. 11 (2012):  81-96. 
Dorward, Andrew A. “Livelisystems: a conceptual framework 
integrating social, ecosystem, development, and evolutionary 
theory”. Ecology and Society,19 no. 2 (2014): 44. 
http://dx.doi.org/10.5751/ES-06494-190244 
Grebel, Thomas, Pyka, Andreas and Hanusch, Horst. An Evolutionary 
Approach to the Theory of  Entrepreneurship. Department of 
Economics, University of Augsburg, 86135 Augsburg,  Germany, 
2001. 
Idoko, Cletus Usman. “Skill acquisition and youth empowerment in 
Nigeria”. Global Journal of  Commerce and Management 
Perspective,3 no.1 (2014):51-54. 
Jonker, Jan and Pennink, Bartjan. The Essence of Research Methodology, 
DOI 10.1007/978-3- 540-71659-4_2 Springer-Verlag: Berlin, 
Heidelberg, 2010 
Kaufman, Joss. The first 20 hours: How to learn anything fast. 
Portfolio/Penguin: London, 2013 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Methodological and Theoretical Issues on Skills Acquisition 
23 
 
Key, S.“Toward a new theory of the firm: a critique of ‘stakeholder’ 
theory”. Management  Decision, 37 no. 4 (1999): 317–328. 
Nduka-Ozo, Stella Ngozi, “Curriculum and Entrepreneurship Skill 
Acquisition at the Tertiary  Educational Level: Implication 
for Counselling Nigeria Youths”. International Journal of 
Advanced Engineering, Management and Science (IJAEMS), 3, no, 
9 (2017): 077-980. https://dx.doi.org/10.24001/ijaems.3.9.12. 
Pradip, Kumar Shahu. Research Methodology: A Guide for Researchers in 
Agricultural Science,  Social Science and Other Related Fields 
DOI 10.1007/978-81-322-1020-7. Springer:  New Delhi. 
Saltzman, Elliot L. &Munhall, Kevin J. “Skills Acquisition and 
Development: The Roles of  State-, Parametre- and Graph-
Dynamic”, Journal of Motor Behaviour. 24, no. 9 (1992): 49-57. 
Udo, Magnus P. “Techniques for improving practical skill acquisition in 
vocational business  education (VBE) for sustainable 
development in NIGERIA”. European Journal of  Research 
and Reflection in Educational Sciences, 3No. 1, (2015): 27-34. 
Umar, M. A. “Conceptualizing the Influence of Principals’ Competence 
on Skill Acquisition in  Agricultural Science Subject in 
Secondary Schools”. International Journal of Academic Research 
in Business and Social Sciences, 9 no. 2 (2019): 115–135 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                Anas Lawal 
24 
 
    22 22    
    The Role of NYSC in Human Capacity Development in 
Nigeria Since 1973 
 
 
Anas Lawal 
 
 
Introduction  
Over the years, the public and private sectors have come up with new 
policies in order to address some contemporary challenges. The 
greatest service a government or organisation can render to humanity 
is the building of their capacity towards development as society‘s 
development rests on this. It is in recognizing this that, the member 
countries of the United Nations adopted the Millennium Development 
Goals (MDGs) in 2000 and later in 2015 the Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDG) was introduced. Nigeria is not an exception to this task as 
the country strives to enhance the development of its human capital. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Role of NYSC in Human Capacity Development in Nigeria Since 1973 
25 
 
Among the many institutions/agencies of the Nigerian government that 
are championing the cause of human capacity development is the 
National Youth Service corps (NYSC). NYSC is spearheading the human 
capacity development in Nigeria through the training of energetic, 
dynamic, educated and professional youths annually. It is against this 
background that this paper tends to critically study the role of the NYSC 
in developing human capacity in Nigeria, highlights its major challenges 
and prospects. 
 
Conceptual Clarification  
The United Nation Development Program (UNDP) defines human 
capacity development as the “process through which individuals, 
organisations and societies obtain, strengthen and maintain the 
capabilities to set and achieve their own development and achieve their 
own objectives.”1 At another level, the Organisation of Economic 
Cooperation (OECD) defines capital development as the processes 
where by people, organisations and societies as a whole release, 
strengthen and create, adapt and maintain capacity over time.2 
Capacity building and development involve sound formal education at 
all levels and the support of non-formal education. The equipping of 
individuals with skills, training and access to information and the 
knowledge that would enable them perform effectively, organisational 
development and management of relations between the sector and 
others, public and private and the community legal frame work.3 
 
The Contribution of NYSC towards Human Capacity Development  
Since its inception in 1973 the NYSC has immensely contributed to 
human capital development in Nigeria both on the part of the corps 
                                                           1 B.S Pollyn, etal “Human Capacity Building and Sustainable Development in 
Nigeria” Best International Journal vol.3, no2, 2016, pp65-70, obtained from 
www.resaerchgate.com 2Pollyn, B.S etal “Human Capacity..” 3Pollyn, B.S etal “Human Capacity..” 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                Anas Lawal 
26 
 
members and the lager Nigerian society. The positive impact of the 
NYSC is felt in areas like: education, health care, employment creation 
and poverty reduction which are the yard stick for measuring human 
development indicators. 
 
Education 
Education is an indispensible tool to human capital/capacity 
development and is one of the criteria for calculating human 
development capacity of a nation. Nigeria’s literacy ranking contributed 
to her low performance in human development indicators particularly 
on vocational and leadership training. Nevertheless, without the NYSC 
the story would have been worrisome and disturbing as the scheme has 
become an indispensible player in educating Nigerian youths and 
adults across the country. 
The NYSC has been another “school” after universities and 
polytechnics. The orientation program is designed in a way to orient 
and give the youths a new set of wide range educational attainment not 
obtainable in their various institutions of learning. There are series of 
lectures on administration, management, ideals, national values, 
history and culture given at the orientation camp. For example the 
STEM students – science, technology, engineering and mathematics- 
are exposed to historical and cultural studies, something relatively new 
to them, while the perception and horizon of those in the social 
sciences and humanities are widened. The various lectures and 
orientations from traditional rulers, administrators, and institutions in 
a new environment/state is nothing less than new school for the 
youths. Confessing this, a corps member explained that: 
NYSC exposed me to know people of different culture, 
understand other people belief and way of life and 
fortunately I socialize with them and we understood 
each other. Also during my service as a corps member, I 
learned many things which help me to develop/grow as 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Role of NYSC in Human Capacity Development in Nigeria Since 1973 
27 
 
a person and most importantly I learned and 
understood to tolerate other people with different 
cultural traits.4 
These lectures and sensitisation revolve around character building, 
leadership, management, planning and national values by  various 
institutions such as the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission 
(EFCC), ICPC,  Nigerian Institute of Management (NIM), Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN), UNICEF, Red Cross, Servicom, 
Nigerian Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), Department of State 
Services (DSS), the Independent National Electoral Commission 
(INEC),the Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneur ship Development 
program (SAED), Religious activities by Muslim Coppers Association of 
Nigerian (MCAN) and the Nigerian  Christian Corpers Fellowship 
(NCCF), National Association of Catholic Corpers (NACC), security and 
and survival tips, history of the various host communities by traditional 
rulers etc. All these are geared towards molding the minds of the 
youths and inculcating in them national values of the Nigerian state 
which further helping refine their minds.5 
Apart from physical training, the camp is also an avenue for enhancing 
socialisation, awareness and national consciousness through the 
various sports such as football, handball, basketball, volley ball, race, 
language classes, social activities, the carnival, sports, drama, 
pageantry, drills, dance and singing competitions. These give the corps 
members the opportunity to interact and socialise with other Nigerian 
youths from different family/ethnic and religious backgrounds, helping 
to create a kind of national consciousness. 
                                                           4Hamza N, 2018 batch “B” Stream one Copper, Posted to Rivers State from 
Kaduna, interviewed 6, 10, 2020 5Obadare, E “Statism, Youth and Civic imagination: A Critical Study of the NYSC 
Program in Nigeria” p. 18 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                Anas Lawal 
28 
 
Corps members are subjected to daily military (army) physical training 
such as morning jogging, drills, martial arts, leadership training 
principles and techniques of fire fighting and prevention, first aid, road 
walk, rock climbing, mapping among others. According to the NYSC 
orientation manual, the various physical activities, drills, martial arts 
and man-o-war activities are meant to build up sound mind in sound 
body by providing training in self-defense and produce responsible 
citizenry.6 Most often, these trainings are rigid and stern. The 
regimentation is so intense that the military will always ensure that the 
Corps members are obedient and disciplined 
The overall impact of the orientation course, especially the interaction 
with the army helps to transform the corps members into formidable 
youths by inculcating in them the lofty ideals of leadership 
administrative skills, endurance, integrity, health, strength, morals, 
espirit de corps,  honesty, confidence,  dedication, diligence, team work, 
discipline, patriotism, culture, hard-work, initiative and adaptability,  
tactical and technical proficiency  the spirit of national unity,  humility, 
selfless sacrifice to humanity, respect for national values and national 
symbols, appreciating the immense sacrifice of the military in 
defending the territorial integrity of the nation, attracting them to 
pursuing career in the military, clearing misconception about the 
military, and reducing cultural and religious barriers which tended to 
hinder aspiration for a career in the military78 
Exposing the Nigerian Youths to the practical aspects of leadership and 
administration is also a credit that the NYSC deserves, from the camp 
the NYSC divides the corps members into platoons and establish what 
it calls “leaders in peers” with platoon leaders among the corps 
                                                           6 See the 2018Batch “B” Stream I Orientation/service Guide, p-12 7 Samson, O.T et al “A Critical Discourse  Analysis of Soldiers-Corps Members 
conversation on NYSC Camp” KADA Journal of Historical Studies of Liberal Arts, 
Kaduna March, 2014, p-38-44 8 National Youth Service Act, Section 1, Article 3, Cap. 84 2004. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Role of NYSC in Human Capacity Development in Nigeria Since 1973 
29 
 
members. From the orientation camp the program is designed in a way 
to harness maximally their various skills and potentials during 
deployment to the place of primary assignments. For example, a 
medical student graduate would be posted to the camp clinic to render 
medical services to colleagues, while the Mass Communications 
graduates also have the opportunity to practice at the camp Orientation 
Broadcasting Service (OBS). 
During elections the corps members also serve as INEC ad-hoc staff as 
presiding officers in polling units and voting points as the case may be. 
This indeed enhanced their practical leadership skills and the capacity 
for development.  Underscoring this point Arubayi observed thus “It is 
a whole personality development frame work that improves protection, 
physical, financial, social, inter-personal, emotional, mental and 
environmental wellbeing”9 
The nature of posting of corps members based on their fields of study 
facilitates their capacity building in legal, medical, media, and 
educational fields through practically carrying out what they studied. 
This has enhanced their capacity development as the posting letter 
demands that corps members should be regarded and treated as 
employees in their respective places of primary assignment in 
hospitals, clinics, dispensaries, media houses, legal offices, schools etc. 
Their CDS follows the same pattern as they are carefully assigned to 
CDS group relevant to their fields in order to enhance their capacity 
development. For example, those who study law are assigned CDS Legal 
Aid, CDS group, ICPC EFCC etc. that help the less privilege in the courts; 
medical students engaged in HIV/AIDS sensitization and other medical 
related community development services, the history students are 
assign to Culture and Tourism CDS Group which enhanced their 
                                                           9Arubayi, D.O “Youth Development: Understanding the Contribution of the 
National Youth Service Corps to Nigerian National Development” p87 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                Anas Lawal 
30 
 
knowledge. The one year service helps to enhance capacity 
development. 
The founding father of the scheme, former head of state General 
Yakubu Gowon (retired) reiterated that: 
The idea of a service corps for youths is quite 
unexceptionable… certainly no right thinking and 
patriotic persons, will query the need for Nigeria to 
inculcate; as a matter of deliberate public policy the 
qualities of leadership to her most educated and 
enlighten youths from among whose rank leaders in all 
walks of life are recruited10 
Apart from the training of the youths and developing their human 
capacity development, the NYSC also attains greater height in 
developing the human capital of the larger population in many other 
educational aspects. 
More than 75% of the corps members are posted to schools as teachers 
in both rural and urban areas of Nigeria; they serve in both private and 
public schools from elementary, primary, secondary and tertiary levels. 
There is hardly any school without a corps member to the extent that 
they have become an indispensible part of the educational sector in 
Nigeria. In this regard the NYSC has facilitated education of  the 
Nigerian child immeasurably since its inception as millions of youths 
who went through the scheme taught millions of students nationwide. 
In the same manner, the corps members also develop their capacities 
as education officers and tutors through the teaching career as they are  
mostly and easily absorbed into the teaching profession after service 
                                                           10 Lot, C. “ The Imperative of Youth Participation in Nation Building” in NYSC News: 
A Journal of NYSC Directorate Headquarters, 2020,  55 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Role of NYSC in Human Capacity Development in Nigeria Since 1973 
31 
 
without most difficult because of the prerequisite teaching skills 
acquired simultaneously while serving.11 Thus; 
NYSC promotes leadership training and capacity 
building through voluntary services rendered by every 
corps members at Community Development Services.12 
Mass literacy is another area the NYSC combats illiteracy among 
Nigerian youths and adults. This is organised mostly through 
Community Development Service. A special programme is designated 
for this purpose where youths embark on educating adults once every 
week apart from their primary assignment as part of their community 
development service. Through this, millions of Nigerians attain basic 
literacy of reading and writing. 
The NYSC model school is another aspect where the Scheme facilitates 
the education of many communities as there are some NYSC model 
Primary Schools in the community hosting some orientation camps to 
enable kids from those communities attend first class school free of 
charge. Apart from this, there is the creation of mass awareness 
through the various CDS activities as HIV/AIDS sensitisation, anti-
corruption campaign, Road Safety, and other lofty national values. The 
founding father of the scheme, Gen. Yakubu Gowon embraced this 
while assessing the contributions of the scheme so far.13 
In similar vein, as part of its annual Legal Officers Workshop, the NYSC 
in 2020 organized a work shop with the theme “Building Capacity for 
optimum Performance” to train legal officers in order to enhance their 
performance. According the NYSC DG, Brigadier General Shuaibu “The 
                                                           11 Bashir S, a Bauchi indigene served at Kaduna 2019 Batch “B”, interviewed 5th, 
Oct 2020. She believes that the scheme helps her in acquiring working experience 
as teacher in her place of primary assignment. 12HalliruIdako, Served in 2017, Taraba state, interviewed 3rd, Oct, 2020. 13 Lot, C “The Imperative of Youths participation in Nation Building: The NYSC 
Experience” in NYSC News: …. p33. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                Anas Lawal 
32 
 
Legal Officers’ Workshop is an annual event aimed at enhancing staff 
competence for great productivity”14 
 
Health Care  
In the part of health care, the NYSC has contributed a lot in sensitising 
the populace through public lectures and mass awareness on the 
dangers of multiple diseases and health risks. These sensitisation 
lectures border on hygiene, HIV/AIDs, other communicable diseases 
such as hepatitis, toilet infection, sexually transmittable diseases and 
the latest Covid-19. 
There are various CDS group contributions especially The Medical CDS 
Group that organises medical outreach to the host communities and 
IDPs to treat people of various treatable diseases within their 
capability. Some other groups also organize Health/hygienic weeks for 
cleaning and sanitising streets or visiting wards in hospitals, 
dispensaries or public toilets to combat open defecation which has 
tremendous health risk. In 2020 the scheme provided free basic health 
care services to IDPs in Maiduguri with free consultations, drugs, tests, 
scanning and therapy. Recognizing this, the Borno State Deputy 
Governor expressed his happiness and satisfaction thus: 
Besides the scheme’s mandate to promote national 
unity and integration, the NYSC through community 
development service facilitates national development 
services and facilitates national development in all 
sectors of the economy”15 
Some corps members also provide facilities and equipment through 
their Individual CDS projects to contribute to the health care and 
betterment of their host communities. A corps member, Makwin Peter 
Makut constructed toilets in Sunsuma village in the outskirts of 
                                                           14  “NYSC Trains Legal Officers for Enhanced Performance” NYSC News...... 15Sada, A “NYSC Borno provides Free Medicare at IDP Camp” 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Role of NYSC in Human Capacity Development in Nigeria Since 1973 
33 
 
Damaturu, Yobe State and renovated four other toilets at Gwangie 
Nwaje Village as his personal CDS in order to combat environmental 
hazards which could cause infection and the outbreak of other airborne 
diseases.  Both the village head and the representative of the Yobe State 
commissioner of health expressed profound gratitude to the NYSC in 
general and the corps member in particular for this gesture.16 There is 
also the Health initiative for Rural Dwellers (HIRD) a health outreach 
programme rolled out by the NYSC in all the states of the Federation 
where medical outreach is targeted at a rural community for a week 
long medicare.   
 
Skills Acquisition AND Poverty Eradication 
The NYSC also has tremendous contribution to the capacity 
development of the corps members. From the camp the NYSC sponsor a 
series of lectures on economics and management to be delivered to the 
corps members by various organisations of different professional 
bodies such as the Institute of Chartered Accountants off Nigeria 
(ICAN), Nigerian Institute of Management (NIM) amongst others. These 
lectures prepare them to join these professional bodies mostly on 
discounted rates. Most corps also get to develop entrepreneurial skills 
through these lectures and the entrepreneurship training in camp. A 
study of young entrepreneurs in Anambra uncovers that many young 
entrepreneurs agreed that their mentorship was through the NYSC 
vocational training.17 
As a way to enhance the vocational and entrepreneurial potentials of 
corps members, the NYSC subject them to various skill acquisition 
training to curb the menace of unemployment and underemployment 
                                                           16 “Corps member constructs toilet in Yobe state” 49 17Nwouso, M “ Youth Entrepreneurship Among University Graduates in Anambra 
State” Phd Dissertation, College of Social and Behavioral Sciences, Walden 
University, 2019 166 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                Anas Lawal 
34 
 
in Nigeria,18 the NYSC’s SAED was created by the NYSC Directorate in 
2012. The aim was to develop and enhance self-reliance by engaging 
facilitators to introduce various programs such as education, 
cosmetology, shoe making, beautification, culture and tourism, 
photography, food processing and preservation, power and energy, 
detergents making, ICT, solar and satellite installation, agro allied, hair 
dressing and barbing, design, tailoring, etc during the Orientation 
Course programme. 
The facilitators also extend this training to corps members willing to 
further any of these trainings after the orientation course. In many 
NYSC orientation camps within the ten days of the SAED introductory 
program, most Corps members proved promising as they even have a 
fair presentation of what they learn so far. Other past Corps members 
that make it through the SAED program are also invited to the camp to 
give inspiring speeches and testimonies to serving corps members. In 
2012 Batch “B” more than 45,000 Corps member were trained, 
according to a report in Thisday as of February 2019 more than 971, 
207 corps members had been trained and about 7000 thousand of 
them established one business or the other, some 1600 have become 
full time entrepreneurs with at least ten employees under 
them.19Muhammad Bello an ex-corps member serving in Kaduna 
contested and won 10, 000 naira during a camp SAED tailoring 
completion. He is now a professional tailor and does not bother to seek 
for government job.20  
                                                           18 For poverty, unemployment and underemployment among the Nigerian youths 
see Akutson, S and Ishaku, J, “The Need for entrepreneurship Education In Our 
Tertiary Institutions in the 21st  Century: An economic and Religious Perspective” 
in Kaduna Journal of Historical Society, vol. 8, 2016, pp351-359. 19 This Day, 6th February 2019. 20 Muhammad Bello Abdussalam, an ex-copper 2019 batch “B” stream I, 
interviewed 2, October, 2020. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Role of NYSC in Human Capacity Development in Nigeria Since 1973 
35 
 
This goes a long way in creating self-reliance and self-employment to 
thousands of youths especially now that Nigeria is facing a high rate of 
unemployment and poverty. It also guides them to know some of the 
intricacies of most Nigerian economic sectors as they are being 
required to be treated as member of staff in their various places of 
primary assignment. For example an ex-corps member who is now in to 
glass and aluminum making business conceded that: 
I attended SAED program in aluminum fabrication 
where I acquired the skills to make aluminum and glass 
windows and doors. I think the SAED program is 
indeed very good, thus it enable youth to learn skill 
acquisition to rely on after their service so as to not just 
rely on getting white collar job/government job, they 
can make use of what they acquire and still maintain 
and depend on it as means of their lively hood.21 
Another corps member Jacob also shares his experience thus:  
NYSC as a scheme has sold to me the interest of 
entrepreneurship during my service year. Prior to my 
service, I have always dreamt of a civil service job but 
today, NYSC has sold me a new idea/mind set through 
SAED.22 
As the corps members are posted to more distant areas other than their 
home states to serve in various places and being paid allowances, out of 
sheer necessity they are introduced to rudiments of financial discipline 
and management that surely help them to avoid recklessness and 
wastages. Most of them accepted that it is through the NYSC that they 
learnt to develop a budget and live within their income. Some corps 
members also invest their little savings in small scale enterprises. 
                                                           21Hamza Muhammad, an indigene of Kaduna camped at  Obubura camp, Cross 
Rivers, 218 Batch “B” Stream I, interviewed 6th, Oct 2019 22 Jocob John, a Kaduan indigene served at Nasarawa State 2018 batch “B” Stream 
I. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                Anas Lawal 
36 
 
Others save to start up a business after the NYSC. A study by Mike 
Nwosu on young graduate entrepreneurs in Anambra shows that most 
of them save their meager NYSC monthly allowances to start up 
businesses.23 According to Blessing Bulus, another ex-corps member 
who is now a promising model, she commented that: 
It exposes me to challenges in life and how to manage 
life even on low budget… during SAED program I keyed 
into cosmetology and shoe making; it’s a very good idea 
saving one the stress of buying something that he can 
make himself giving how things are now24 
 
Outreach Programmes 
The corps members also make various outreaches in building the 
capacity of people in their host communities through programs that 
alleviate poverty and create employment through teaching them basic 
skills to produce goods of economic value. For instance, a corps 
member, Chukumeka Chinonye Cynthia, in collaboration with the Kebbi 
State Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development conducted 
skill training for less privileged women on how to produce liquid soap, 
Vaseline, beads, perfumes and Izal, all aimed at providing them with 
skills, capital and source of lively hood25 
In similar vein a corps member, Precious Iwuanyawu, constructed and 
donated a Biogas cooker to three poor families in Katsina’s Kukar Gesa 
community as part of his personal CDS. Precious stressed that “she 
embarked on the project to alleviate the stress and suffering they were 
passing through to prepare meals and combat the hazard associated 
with firewood smoke that poor families depend on to prepare meals..” 
                                                           23Nwouso, M “ Youth Entrepreneurship Among University Graduates in Anambra 
State” p116 24  Blessing Bulus, a 2018 corps Batch “B” corps member, an indigene of Adamawa 
that served at Abuja. Interviewed 6th, October, 2020.  25 Idris, H.D “Corpse Member conducts skills training for the less privileged” 
NYSC_NEWS…. P-51 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Role of NYSC in Human Capacity Development in Nigeria Since 1973 
37 
 
Precious also trained some students and members of the community on 
how to construct Biogas using local materials like cow dung, containers 
and pipes obtainable in their environment, hence teaching them a skill 
that can set them free from poverty.26 
 
The NYSC and the SDG 
The Sustainable Development Goal (SDGs) is the extended version of 
the Millennia Development Goal (MDGs) earlier started in 2000 by the 
United Nations. The SDGs is an adopted international frame work in 
2015 by the United Nations’ development program that sets to achieve 
17 strides targeted to be achieved by2030. It is adopted by UN member 
states as a universal call for action to end poverty, promote quality 
education, good health and social wellbeing, gender equality, provision 
of clean water and sanitation, combating hunger, affordable and clean 
energy, decent work and economic growth, reduce inequality, 
promotion of industry, innovation and infrastructure, responsible 
consumption and production, climate action, protection life below 
water and life on land, peace Justice and strong institutions, protection 
of the planet and ensure that all people enjoy peace and prosperity by 
2030. 27 In Nigeria, the NYSC, given its dynamic nature and presence in 
every community, is the most functional Nigerian institution as far as 
the SDGs is concerned. 
The NYSC has been facilitating the implementation of the SDGs by 
dedicating a special CDS group of corps members in each Nigerian 
Local Government Area specially trained to achieve that purpose. 
During the week of the 75th UN General Assembly in 2020, the Nigerian 
president while setting Nigeria’s target for the next decade in fighting 
poverty, combating illicit financial flows and enduring economic 
recovery amid Covid-19, recognised the enviable role the NYSC has 
                                                           26 Alex, O “Corps Member constructs Biogas cooker for families in Katsina”  NYSC-
News 42 27www.undp.advocate.org 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                Anas Lawal 
38 
 
been playing and would continue to play in the implementation of the 
SDGs programmes in Nigeria. In his own words, the president stresses 
that: 
Our National Assembly has established committees on 
Sustainable Development Goals. The National Youth 
Service Corps is also ensuring that Nigerian graduates 
actively participates in SDGs implementation processes 
by serving as SDGs champions at the grass root28 
The Olowo of Owo, Oba Ajibade shared this view where he 
acknowledged the contribution of the corps members as thus: 
Corps members are doing well in the various sectors of 
the economy they are posted to. In the health care 
service, they are complementing in the primary health 
care while those that are posted to education and 
healthcare (are also tremulously impacting these 
sectors)29 
 
The Challenges of NYSC towards Human Development in Nigeria 
Sometimes because of the dearth of teachers in many Nigerian primary 
and secondary institutions, most corps members are required to teach 
more subjects in schools. This indeed hinders their capability to deliver 
and educate the younger ones and this affects human capital 
development. 
In some cases, security challenges and issues of accommodation in the 
places of primary assignment thereby compelling them to be posted 
out of such communities. They also tend to create a gap in their PPA 
which negatively affects the performance of the scheme in human 
capacity development. 
                                                           28 “SDGs: FG to mobilize NYSC Members to champion implementation at grass 
roots” NYSC News 07 29 Bankole, S”NYSC, Indispensible tool for National development- Ondo monarch” 
NYC News……..p41 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Role of NYSC in Human Capacity Development in Nigeria Since 1973 
39 
 
The rejection and underutilisation of corps members have greatly  
reduced their morale and negatively affected their commitment to 
human capacity development. The Owolo of Owo, His imperial majesty 
Oba Ajibade Gbadegesin Ogunoye lamented thus: 
One of the worrisome and unpleasant attitudes of corps 
employers is the rejection of corps members’ services. 
By doing so, you are indirectly telling them they are not 
welcome in your community which will definitely 
dampen their moral”30  
 
Prospects 
Corps members should be given the chance to teach especially in their 
area of specialization, where possible. This will make them to be more 
functional and will help to develop their capacity. The perennial 
problems like lack of accommodation and insecurity have served to 
discourage corps members and they need to be addressed. 
Additionally, all establishments rejecting corps members for unjust 
cause should be called to order or sanctioned by government.  
 
Conclusion  
This chapter has examined the concept of human capacity 
development, its centrality to nation building and the various roles the 
NYSC has been playing to the success and achievement of Nigeria 
economy through education, health care, entrepreneurship 
development, poverty eradication among others. The chapter also 
highlighted some of the issues affecting effective performance of the 
corps members. In spite of these issues, NYSC is the most important 
contributor to capacity building in Nigeria through the activities of 
corps members throughout the service year. 
 
                                                           30Bankole, S”NYSC, Indispensible tool for National development- Ondo 
monarch”p41 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                Anas Lawal 
40 
 
Bibliography 
 
Akutson, S and Ishaku, J, “The Need for entrepreneurship Education In 
Our Tertiary Institutions in the 21st  Century: An economic and 
Religious Perspective” in Kaduna Journal of Historical Society, 
vol. 8, 2016, pp351-359. 
Alex, O “Corps Member constructs Biogas cooker for families in 
Katsina”  NYSC-News 42 
ankole, S”NYSC, Indispensible tool for National development- Ondo 
monarch” NYC News……..p41 
Arubayi, D.O “Youth Development: Understanding the Contribution of 
the National Youth Service Corps to Nigerian National 
Development”  PhD Thesis, School of Environmental, Education 
and Developmental Studies, Faculty of Humanities, University 
of Manchester, 2015, p84 
Arubayi, D.O “Youth Development: Understanding the Contribution of 
the National Youth Service Corps to Nigerian National 
Development” p87 
Bashir S, a Bauchi indigene served at Kaduna 2019 Batch “B”, 
interviewed 5th, Oct 2020. She believes that the scheme helps 
her in acquiring working experience as teacher in her place of 
primary assignment. 
Blessing Bulus, a 2018 corps Batch “B” corps member, an indigene of 
Adamawa that served at Abuja. Interviewed 6th, October, 2020.  
HalliruIdako, Served in 2017, Taraba state, interviewed 3rd, Oct, 2020. 
Hamza Muhammad, an indigene of Kaduna camped at  Obubura camp, 
Cross Rivers, 218 Batch “B” Stream I, interviewed 6th, Oct 2019 
Hamza N, 2018 batch “B” Stream one Copper, Posted to Rivers State 
from Kaduna, interviewed 6, 10, 2020 
Idris, H.D “Corpse Member conducts skills training for the less 
privileged” NYSC_NEWS…. P-51 
Jocob John, a Kaduan indigene served at Nasarawa State 2018 batch “B” 
Stream I. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Role of NYSC in Human Capacity Development in Nigeria Since 1973 
41 
 
Lot, C. “ The Imperative of Youth Participation in Nation Building” in 
NYSC News: A Journal of NYSC Directorate Headquarters, 2020,  
55 
Muhammad Bello Abdussalam, an ex-copper 2019 batch “B” stream I, 
interviewed 2, October, 2020. 
National Youth Service Act, Section 1, Article 3, Cap. 84 2004. 
National Youth Service Corps Act, Chapter 84, Section One, Article one 
and two, 2004 
National Youth Service Corps Act, Chapter 84, Section One, Article one 
and two, 2004 
Nwouso, M “ Youth Entrepreneurship Among University Graduates in 
Anambra State” Phd Dissertation, College of Social and 
Behavioral Sciences, Walden University, 2019 
Nwouso, M “ Youth Entrepreneurship Among University Graduates in 
Anambra State” Phd Dissertation, College of Social and 
Behavioral Sciences, Walden University, 2019 166 
Nwouso, M “ Youth Entrepreneurship Among University Graduates in 
Anambra State” p116 
Obadare, E “Statism, Youth and Civic imagination: A Critical Study of 
the NYSC Program in Nigeria” Center for Social Development, 
Global Service Institute, Washington University, St. Louis. P-21 
Obadare, E “Statism, Youth and Civic imagination: A Critical Study of 
the NYSC Program in Nigeria” p18 
Pollyn, B.S etal “Human Capacity Building and Sustainable 
Development in Nigeria” Best International Journal vol.3, no2, 
2016, pp65-70, obtained from www.resaerchgate.com 
Sada, A “NYSC Borno provides Free Medicare at IDP Camp” 
Samson, O.T et al “A Critical Discourse  Analysis of Soldiers-Corps 
Members conversation on NYSC Camp” KADA Journal of 
Historical Studies of Liberal Arts, Kaduna March, 2014, p-38-44 
  Source: “People and Society: Population”, World Fact Book, theCentral 
Intelligence Agency, 2017. Retrieved 17, October 2017. 
www.undp.advocate.org 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                             Rabiatu Ibrahim Abdullahi 
42 
 
 33 33    
    Institutional Framework and the Philosophy of NYSC 
Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development 
(SAED) Initiative 
 
 
Rabiatu Ibrahim Abdullahi 
 
 
Introduction 
The Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development Programme, 
popularly known as the SAED programme, is an innovation deployed 
by the Federal Government through the National Youth Service Corps 
(NYSC) which is aimed at reducing youth unemployment to the barest 
minimum in Nigeria. This is because youth unemployment has become 
a serious obstacle to socio-economic development of this nation, and 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Institutional Framework and the Philosophy of NYSC Skills Acquisition... 
43 
 
this, if not tackled could continue to spur social vices among the 
teeming youth in the country.  
In recent times, the scourge of kidnapping, cybercrime, terrorism, 
armed robbery, prostitution, brain drain, among others has constituted 
a social problem among the Nigerian youth.1 The increasing youth 
unemployment serves to sabotage democratic practice, continuous 
engagement in social vices, serious threat to economic development 
and other criminal activities. This argument follows the popular saying 
that “an idle mind is the devil workshop”, it is most important that any 
nation facing this problem will be bedevilled with the challenges of 
achieving societal growth, and sustainable development. This is 
because development cannot be enhanced in a country bedevilled by 
social vices and other criminal activities. Thus, it is important for a 
nation to have productive youths who possess the mindset of 
innovation, technology and creativity in the society. Therefore, the 
important roles of entrepreneurship and skills development as a 
panacea to the problem of high youth unemployment rate, poverty 
level and slow economic growth rate needs to be acknowledged. 
This chapter therefore seeks to investigate the institutional framework 
and the philosophy of the NYSC Skills Acquisition and 
Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) initiative. The work is divided 
into five subsections; section one focuses on conceptual clarification of 
terms, section two focuses on the Background to the establishment of 
the NYSC; section three discusses the evolution of SAED; its 
institutional framework and the motives behind its establishment, 
section four discusses the impact of the programme on the teeming 
Nigerian youth, section five examines the challenges and conclusion. 
 
                                                           1 O.A. Adewusi, and B.I. Adisa, “The Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship 
Development Programme among Corps Members in Ibadan, Nigeria”, Zaria 
Sociological Journal, 5(1): 2018, 248 – 260. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                             Rabiatu Ibrahim Abdullahi 
44 
 
Conceptual Clarification 
SAED: SAED is Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development. It 
is an important part of the NYSC orientation activities, formulated by 
the government to curb the menace of unemployment among the 
youths. The SAED serves as a means to equip youth with skills that will 
make them employable, self reliant and also fit to employ others. 
Institutional Framework: Institutional framework is the system of 
laws, regulation, procedures, stakeholders with their roles and norms 
that shape socio-economic activity and behaviour. It could also mean a 
set of several legal variables that constitute a key feature of a 
geographic area and determine the actions of institutions, companies 
and people in this location.2 Institutional frameworks are issues 
directly relevant to the strategy employed in managing institutions. 
Entrepreneurship: Timmons3 define Entrepreneurship as "the 
process of creating or seizing an opportunity and pursuing it regardless 
of the resources currently controlled". Drucker4 says 
“entrepreneurship is "risky" mainly because so few of the so-called 
entrepreneurs know what they are doing.” He further proposed that 
‘entrepreneurship’ is a practice. What this means is that 
entrepreneurship is not a state of being nor is it characterised by 
making plans that are not acted upon. Entrepreneurship begins with 
action and creation of new ideas. This idea may or may not become 
self-sustaining and in fact, may never earn significant revenues. But, 
when individuals create a new idea, they have entered the 
entrepreneurship paradigm.  
                                                           2“Institutional Framework” http://www.igi-global.com/dictionary/institutional-
framework/14798. accessed 8/3/2021,   3 J.A. Timmons, New Venture Creation: Entrepreneurship for the 21st Century. Burr 
Ridge: Irwin Press,1994). 4India Entrepreneurship Report, 2014 by Amway and Indicus Analytics, 
www.amwayentrepreneurshipreport.com 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Institutional Framework and the Philosophy of NYSC Skills Acquisition... 
45 
 
Entrepreneurship, according to Onuoha5 is “the practice of starting new 
organisations or revitalising mature organisations, particularly new 
businesses generally in response to identified opportunities.”  To an 
economist, an entrepreneur is one who brings resources, labor, 
materials, and other assets into combinations that make their value 
greater than before, and also one who introduces changes, innovations, 
and new order. To a psychologist, such a person is typically driven by 
certain forces- the need to obtain or attain something, to experiment, 
an entrepreneur appears as a threat, an aggressive competitor. 
Whereas to another businessman, the same entrepreneur may be an 
ally, a source of supply, a customer, or someone who creates wealth for 
others, as well as finds better ways to utilise resources, reduce waste, 
and produce jobs, others are dire to get.6  
Entrepreneurship is the dynamic process of creating in ceremonial 
wealth. The wealth is created by individuals who assume the major 
risks in terms of equity, time and/ or career commitment or provide 
value for some product or services. The product or services may or may 
not be new but value must somehow be infused by the entrepreneur by 
receiving and locating necessary skills and resources.7  From the above 
definitions, Entrepreneurship can be summed up as nothing but the 
process of creating new idea with value, particularly responding to the 
opportunities available. It involves time, efforts and assumption of risk, 
with the expectation of receiving the rewards at the end. The reward 
can take any form; monetary or non-monetary (personal contentment). 
Skill Acquisition: Skill Acquisition is the art of learning to do 
something in order to earn a living and to survive. There are various 
skills one can venture such as fine art, auto-mechanic, pottery, 
vulcanising among others. These skills are learnt for the purpose of 
                                                           5G. Onuoha, “Entrepreneurship”, AIST International Journal Vol.10, 20-32. 6 K. Vesper, New Venture Strategies, “Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1980), 
pg. 2 7 R.C. Ronstadt, Entrepreneurship, (Dover, MA: Lord Publishing Co.,1984) pg. 28. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                             Rabiatu Ibrahim Abdullahi 
46 
 
earning a living. Skill acquisition can also be described as the ability to 
be trained on a particular task or function to become an expert in it. 
This has become a norm in the Nigerian society, as a consequence of 
the menace of unemployment that has constituted a problem to the 
teeming Nigerian youth of today. 
 
Evolvement of SAED, Motives Behind its Establishment and Its 
Institutional Framework  
Evolution of SAED 
The SAED programme was established in 2012 with the sole mandate 
of contributing to the attainment of the Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs). The programme is formulated with its activities which are done 
both in the orientation camp and during primary assignment. SAED is 
administered as a department under the NYSC structure and it is 
headed by a Director. These are some of the key initiatives instituted 
under the programme with the aim of ensuring that its objectives 
below are achieved: 
• Sensitise and mobilise young graduatesmassively and generally 
for skill acquisition every year. 
• Facilitate the training and mentoring of young graduates in skill 
acquisition and entrepreneurship development for self-reliance 
annually  
• Promote public-private partnership for entrepreneurship 
development and self-reliance amongst Nigerian youths  
• Promote documentation and sharing of best practices on youth 
empowerment in Nigeria  
• Support evidence-driven advocacy efforts for favorable policies 
on youth empowerment in Nigeria  
• Sensitisation and mobilisation of corps members for enrollment 
into the skill acquisition and entrepreneurship development 
program  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Institutional Framework and the Philosophy of NYSC Skills Acquisition... 
47 
 
• Development of a standard curriculum for the in-camp skill 
acquisition exercise  
• Identification of organisations at state level to provide training 
and mentoring in specific skills sets  
• Attachment of the corps members to the various organisations 
for skill acquisition and entrepreneurship development  
• On-going monitoring and supervision of trainee corps members  
• Facilitate access to available funding opportunities.8 
In terms of financing, the SAED programme has been able to secure 
partnership with public and private bodies that offer different types of 
funding assistance to Corps members. Some of these financing bodies 
include: Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Credit Direct Ltd, Bank of 
Industry, and Bank of Agriculture. In this regards, private institutions 
such as Credit Direct Ltd, through its Quick Fix Loan System, disbursed 
N629.016 million to 13,344 Corps Members. Seven (7) Corps members 
have also received 15 million as business loan disbursed under the 
Youth Entrepreneurship development Programme of the Central Bank 
of Nigeria (CBN).9 
 
Motives behind its Establishment 
The enormous challenges bedevilling youths especially after their 
graduation and their dedicated service to their nation has become very 
alarming over the years, the NYSC was established with the mandate: 
among others, of empowering youths with sustainable skills that can 
aid them in surmounting the woes of the post-service year. Many 
Nigerian graduates of tertiary institutions with the hope of securing a 
meaningful white collar or salary-oriented jobs, (which they could not 
find) always encounter disappointing situation, depression and 
                                                           8 “SAED” http://nysclagos.com/saed.php retrieved 28/09/2017. 9 T.T. Akande, “Youth Empowerment and Technical and Vocational Education and 
Training (TVET) in Nigeria”. The Journal of Nigerian Association of Teachers of 
Technology, 7(3), 2011, 63 – 68. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                             Rabiatu Ibrahim Abdullahi 
48 
 
frustration. Hence the establishments of a SAED programme under the 
NYSC will help mitigate the effect of the long hunt for jobs and acute 
unemployment the country has grappled with overtime.  
Recognising the need to compliment government’s efforts at tackling 
the unemployment scourge and in line with its own objectives, the 
NYSC took a bold step of expanding its empowerment programme for 
Corps members by initiating the SAED programme. The scheme 
remains a prime government institution with structure and presence to 
tackle unemployment effectively. It has presence in the 774 Local 
Government Areas (LGAs) in Nigeria and mobilises over 350,000 young 
graduates annually across the country.10 
The SAED programme targets young graduates of tertiary institutions 
in Nigeria who have limited chances of getting employed after 
graduation. The programme focuses on empowering them with 
entrepreneurial skills and building their capacities in the twelve (12) 
key areas including; fashion, agriculture, ICT, education, power & 
energy, automobiles, film & photography, cosmetology, food 
processing/preservation, agro-allied, and much more that would 
transform these young graduates into sustainable change agents 
worldwide. The SAED programme also created a platform that will 
facilitate youth access to requisite skills and resources necessary for 
successful entrepreneurship as a means of job creation, improving food 
security and enhancing national development. The programme 
envisioned the development of a culture of self-reliance among our 
youth by equipping them with the necessary skills for sustainable job 
creation towards national development.11 
 
 
 
                                                           10“SAED” http://nysclagos.com/saed.php retrieved 28/09/2017. 11“SAED” http://nysclagos.com/saed.php retrieved 28/09/2017. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Institutional Framework and the Philosophy of NYSC Skills Acquisition... 
49 
 
Institutional Framework of SAED 
As mentioned earlier, the programme is a nationwide initiative 
targeted at young Nigerian graduates mobilised and deployed during a 
one-year mandatory service. The programme is designed to be 
implemented within the framework of the orientation course and the 
primary assignment period of the service year. The in-camp component 
of the program focuses largely on creating the entrepreneurial and self-
reliant spirit, helping corps members explore various income 
generation opportunities available with a view to identifying the one 
that best suits their personality/circumstances and professional 
training, hands-on training as well as development of business plans. 
The post-camp component provides the platform for a more rigorous 
training of interested corps members with a view to equipping them 
with the necessary technical/vocational skills as well as business 
competencies needed to start-up businesses; this is carried out by 
various partner organisations/enterprises with cognate competence 
and experience in the identified skill areas. Mentoring and linkages 
with available funding opportunities and access to the market are key 
features of the post-camp component of the programme. For the 
purpose of the programme, NYSC collaborates with key players in the 
public and private sectors as partners, both at national, international 
and state levels to ensure that the various organisational competencies 
are appropriately influenced.12 
Regarding the Institutional framework of SAED, Every organisation has 
its own unique institutional framework. The NYSC SAED is a 
programme under the scheme which possesses its own unique 
features. Even though it is under the NYSC scheme, it runs its affairs 
independently and aims to deliver on its mandate of job creation for the 
youths and mitigating the effect of unemployment among the youth 
                                                           12“2019-2024 Strategic framework for the Skill Acquisition and Development 
Programme (SAED) Programme of the National Youth Service Corps” 
www.nyscsaed.com Accessed 14/3/21. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                             Rabiatu Ibrahim Abdullahi 
50 
 
especially after service year. The SAED program is managed by a 
department already created within the NYSC at the DHQ level with 
coordinating units at the state level.13The SAED department has three 
divisions, namely: 
• Partnership Division 
• Empowerment Division 
• Programmes Division 
 
The Partnership Development Division is responsible for building 
collaboration frameworks across the intervention focus areas and 
securing competent partners to deliver identified interventions. While 
the Programme development department is responsible for driving the 
execution of internal interventions, supporting the execution of partner 
interventions and monitoring and evaluation of the program activities 
to track efficiency and impact. 
The Programme Development Division is also supported by an expert 
committee of development partners with proven track record in the 
public and private sectors to provide technical advisory support to the 
program at national and state level. This group would provide 
technical, financial and political support to the programme and serve as 
a buffer for fine-tuning and driving program strategies. Furthermore, 
their respective organisational capacities and goodwill would be 
leveraged for successful implementation of the programme. Some 
organisations by virtue of their work and help facilitate access to places 
and opportunities that ordinarily may be beyond the reach of the 
NYSC.14 
                                                           13“2019-2024 Strategic framework for the Skill Acquisition and Development 
Programme (SAED) Programme of the National Youth Service Corps” 
www.nyscsaed.com Accessed 14/3/21. 14“2019-2024 Strategic framework for the Skill Acquisition and Development 
Programme (SAED) Programme of the National Youth Service Corps” 
www.nyscsaed.com Accessed 14/3/21. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Institutional Framework and the Philosophy of NYSC Skills Acquisition... 
51 
 
Below is the Organogram of the National Programme Oﬃce and the 
state programme office. These offices are structured hierarchically 
from top to bottom and it is the chain that determines how SAED carry 
out their duties accordingly. 
Fig 1: Organogram of the National Programme Office  
 
Source: NYSC SAED. www.nyscsaed.com 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                             Rabiatu Ibrahim Abdullahi 
52 
 
Fig 2: Organogram of the State Programme Office  
CI artnership P
& JAC
CI 
Skill Acquisition
Zonal Oﬃce 
SAED Oﬃcer
Partnership JAC Skill Acquisition
Management
Apprentices hip 
& Mentoring
LG Oﬃce 
SAED Oﬃcer
Corp Members
                                               Assistant Director, SAED
State Coordinator
 
Source: NYSC SAED. www.nyscsaed.com 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Institutional Framework and the Philosophy of NYSC Skills Acquisition... 
53 
 
Impact of SAED on the Nigerian Youths 
Since the inception of the programme approximately 1,200,000 Corps 
Members have been sensitised and given empowerment message, 
while over 774,000 have completed post-camp training. In addition, 
one of the partners of the scheme, the Bank of Industry (BOI) has 
trained no fewer than 3,927 Corps Members under the BOI-NYSC 
Graduate Empowerment Fund. 1,077 of them have applied for loans to 
the sum of about N4 billion. So far, a total of N540.2million has been 
disbursed to 325 Corps Members, and they have all established their 
own business in different aspects of the SAED and have in turn 
employed an average of four persons to run their business.15 
The program officially commenced in 2012 and has been implemented 
for 8 years with a reach of over 1.4 million graduates. The programme 
has created 961 businesses which in turn have an average of 4 
employees each, creating a total of 3,844 jobs as at 2019.The 
programme is currently in all parts of the country (36 states and 
Federal Capital Territory) due to its partnership with the government 
at national and state levels. In addition, the programme has 20% of 
businesses with steadily growing sales and which has broken even 
from 2016-2019.16  
This demonstrates capacity of the program to be sustained over the 
years to come as the programme received support from both private 
and public sectors. In addition, international development partners 
have also supported the programme with additional funds for training 
and credits to the young entrepreneurs. This demonstrates and boosts 
confidence in innovation and its potential for sustainability of the 
                                                           15 E. Agu, and D. Ayogu, “Assessing the Prospects and Problems of 
Entrepreneurship Development in Nigeria”,International Journal of Business and 
Management Invention, Vol. 3 No 10, 2015,208 – 221. 16 G. Adejumo, “Indigenous Entrepreneurship Development in Nigeria: 
Characteristics, Problems and Prospects”Ilorin Journal of Business Administration, 
Vol 2, No. 1, 2000,  112-122. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                             Rabiatu Ibrahim Abdullahi 
54 
 
programme. The scheme also has a work plan to enable effective 
monitoring and evaluation using key performance indicators such as 
number of corps members enrolling and completing various skills 
acquisition and entrepreneurship programs in various states, number 
of business plans developed, classified by type, number of successful 
business plans disaggregated by type, number of stakeholder’s 
meetings convened and number/type of stakeholders participating in 
stakeholders’ meetings.  Over time the results of this monitoring and 
evaluation has proven that our concept is implementable and scalable, 
and thus need for scale up.17  
 
Challenges of the SAED Programme 
Some of the challenges that have constituted an obstacle to the 
progress and a source of concern for the stakeholders of the 
programmes include the following: 
Inadequate Resource Persons: This has become a major challenge 
right from the in-camp exercise where by the resource persons are 
been overburdened with numerous tasks that are beyond their 
capacities, as a consequence, the beneficiaries tend to be undertrained 
or get less than the required knowledge which is against the objective 
of the establishment of the SAED programme. 
Difficulty in access to Loan Facilities: The post service engagements 
of these corps members which is supposed to be fruitful to them by 
providing loan facilities to embark on the actualisation of skills learnt 
during service year has become a major challenge. Most of them are not 
able to access loans from partner agencies, other government 
institutions and non- governmental organisations that provide these 
loans early enough or at the right time. 
                                                           17 O.A. Adewusi, and B.I. Adisa, “The Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship 
Development Programme among Corps Members in Ibadan, Nigeria” Zaria 
Sociological Journal, Vol 5 No. 1 2018, 248 – 260.  
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Institutional Framework and the Philosophy of NYSC Skills Acquisition... 
55 
 
Lack of follow up with trained beneficiaries: Most times, the already 
trained beneficiaries tend to abandon the skills learnt during their 
orientation course as they venture into other fruitless exercises which 
will not contribute to their progress. There is the need for a follow up 
on the activities of these corps members in post-camp and even post-
service.18 
Discrepancy in Data for Evaluation: Since its inception in 2012, the 
SAED programme has empowered millions of youths directly and 
indirectly. However, there is discrepancy in data that are attainable as 
it affects the assessment of the viability of the scheme. This has 
implication for policy planning and implementation. The available data 
are mostly estimated data that do not reflect the reality. For instance, 
there is a need to identify the specific number of youths that have 
undergone the training, how the scheme has transformed their life and 
those that have indirectly benefitted from the programme through 
them. This way, any gap and challenges will be better identified and 
efforts channelled towards resolving them. Indeed, there is a need to 
have well-organized data to measure the impact of this policy and 
implementation.  
Inadequate Data on Funding: Many of the beneficiaries are ill-
equipped with the appropriate knowledge, especially on how to access 
funding from NYSC partner institutions. Even though there have been 
several partnerships between NYSC, local and international funding 
bodies, many youths are unable to access these funding facilities 
because they do not have adequate information about them. This has 
sometimes deprived the beneficiaries from taking advantage of these 
loans that were meant to finance their business initiatives. 
                                                           18O.A. Adewusi, and B.I. Adisa, “The Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship 
Development Programme among Corps Members in Ibadan, Nigeria” Zaria 
Sociological Journal, Vol 5 No. 1 2018, 248 – 260. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                             Rabiatu Ibrahim Abdullahi 
56 
 
Inadequate Training Centers: Training centers particularly in remote 
areas are insufficient to accommodate the corps members during post-
camp period. Despite the efforts by the SAED management to provide 
additional training equipment such as sewing machines, gas cookers, 
ovens, barbing clippers, dryers, steamers, tool kits of different 
vocations; for carpentry, automobile, electric, the training centers are 
still not enough for the youths interested in the programme annually. 
Insufficient Training Materials: There are inadequate training 
materials for those who seek to learn in the post-orientation course 
training. More so, some trainers tend to hike the prices of training 
materials and practical tools during the orientation course because 
they are aware of the regimented nature of the camps. Therefore, corps 
members are sometimes forced to borrow from home or touch their 
stipends to pay for tools. Sometimes, tools that cost very little are sold 
at exorbitant prices by trainers because they understand limitations of 
Corps members within the orientation camp. This has sometimes 
deprived willing corps members who wish to take up specific skills to 
identify less expensive ones, thereby depriving them of those skills they 
have interest in.  Also, trainers in the orientation camps sometimes 
tend to sell inferior tools that are not durable. Therefore, the corps 
members have to buy new tools after the orientation camps to pursue 
their chosen SAED sector.19 
 
Conclusion 
The SAED programme no doubt has built a viable institutional 
framework that has contributed to its successes overtime. This chapter 
examines the SAED programme through its structures, and how it has 
been able to organize several training platforms that have been of great 
help to the teeming Nigerian Youths. This study has been able to 
examine the establishment of the NYSC scheme itself and the initiative 
                                                           19 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Institutional Framework and the Philosophy of NYSC Skills Acquisition... 
57 
 
leading to the evolvement of SAED programme in the year 2012. 
Although the programme despite its huge challenges have been 
successful in attending to the numerous needs of the unemployed 
Nigerian youths overtime as most of its beneficiaries have succeeded in 
establishing themselves especially in the post-service years. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                             Rabiatu Ibrahim Abdullahi 
58 
 
Bibliography 
 
“2019-2024 Strategic framework for the Skill Acquisition and 
Development Programme (SAED) Programme of the National 
Youth Service Corps” www.nyscsaed.com Accessed 14/3/21. 
“NYSC- Historical Background of the National Youth Service Corps”. 
Accessed10/03/21 www.nysc.gov/aboutNYSC 
“SAED” http://nysclagos.com/saed.php retrieved 28/09/2017. 
Adejumo G, “Indigenous Entrepreneurship Development in Nigeria: 
Characteristics, Problems and Prospects” Ilorin Journal of 
Business Administration, Vol 2, No. 1, 2000,  112-122. 
Adewusi, O.A, and Adisa, B.I. “The Skill Acquisition and 
Entrepreneurship Development Programme among Corps 
Members in Ibadan, Nigeria” Zaria Sociological Journal, Vol 5 
No. 1 2018, 248 – 260. 
Agu, E. and Ayogu D, “Assessing the Prospects and Problems of 
Entrepreneurship Development in Nigeria”, International 
Journal of Business and Management Invention, Vol. 3 No 10, 
2015,208 – 221. 
Akande, T.T, “Youth Empowerment and Technical and Vocational 
Education and Training (TVET) in Nigeria”. The Journal of 
Nigerian Association of Teachers of Technology, 7(3), 2011, 63 – 
68. 
India Entrepreneurship Report, 2014 by Amway and Indicus Analytics, 
www.amwayentrepreneurshipreport.com 
Institutional Framework” http://www.igi-global.com/dictionary/ 
institutional-framework/14798.accessed 8/3/2021,   
Okafor, E., E. “Youth Unemployment and Implications for Stability of 
Democracy in Nigeria. Journal of Sustainable Development in 
Africa”, 13(1): 2011, 358 – 373.  
Okeke, M. and Eme, O. “Challenges Facing Entrepreneurs in Nigeria”. 
Singaporean Journal of Business Economics and Management 
Studies, 3(5): 2014, 18 – 34.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Institutional Framework and the Philosophy of NYSC Skills Acquisition... 
59 
 
Okpara, J., and Wynn, P. “Determinants of Small Business Growth 
Constraints in a SubSaharan African Economy”.SAM Advanced 
Management Journal, 3(6): 2000, 1 – 12.  
OnuohaG,“Entrepreneurship”, AIST International Journal Vol.10, 20-32. 
Oyelola, O. etal, Entrepreneurship for sustainable economic growth in 
Nigeria. Journal of Sustainable Development Studies. 2(2) 2013, 
197-215.  
Riti, J., and Kamah, M, “Employment and Sustainable Development in 
Nigeria.International”Journal of Academic Research in 
Economics and Management Sciences, 4(1): 2015,179 – 199.  
Ronstadt R.C.Entrepreneurship, (Dover, MA: Lord Publishing Co.,1984) 
pg. 28. 
Salami C.G.E, “Youth Unemployment in Nigeria: A time for a creative 
intervention”. International Journal of Business and Marketing 
Management. 1(2), 2013, 18 – 26.  
Siyanbola, etal, Determinants of Entrepreneurial Propensity of Nigerian 
Undergraduates: An Empirical Assessment retrieved on 
12/06/2016 from mpra.ub.unimuenchen.de/35797/    
Thaddeus, E. “Perspectives: Entrepreneurship Development and 
Growth of Enterprise in Nigeria”. Entrepreneurial Practice 
Review, 2(2), 2012, 23 – 40.  
Tijani-Alawiye, B. Entrepreneurship Processes and Small Business 
Management, Ilaro, Nigeria.(Baltimore: John Hopkins University 
Press, 2009) 63. 
Timmons J.A.New Venture Creation: Entrepreneurship for the 21st 
Century. Burr Ridge: Irwin Press,1994). 
Vesper K.New Venture Strategies, “Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall, 
1980), pg. 2. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND SAED                                                           Abubakar Yusuf Umar 
60 
 
 44 44    
    An Assessment of the Training Modules and 
Curriculum of SAED 
 
 
Abubakar Yusuf Umar 
 
 
Introduction 
The National Youth Service Corps was introduced by the military 
administration of General Yakubu Gowon in 1973. The then military 
Head of State established the Scheme as part of his “Three Rs” 
post-civil War policy of Re-construction, Re-habilitation, and Re-
integration specifically to unite the country’s different regions, in 
order to promote peace, love and tolerance among the various ethnic 
groups in the country after a devastating Civil War that threatened 
the unity of the country and almost dividing the country into two 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

An Assessment of the Training Modules and Curriculum of SAED 
61 
 
different sovereign States. The Scheme encourages the posting of 
Nigerian graduates below 30 years of age to a different region or 
State other than their own and undergo Orientation Course, 
preparatory to the mandatory one-year National service. After the 
orientation course, the Corps members are posted to various 
communities for their primary assignment. 
The rate of unemployment among the youths after their service year is 
very high. At the end of the service year, these graduates join the 
labour market, searching for jobs that are scarce or non-existent, 
rendering them unemployed. To tackle the disturbing graduate 
unemployment, the NYSC introduced the SAED programme in 2012, 
designed to equip corps members with the requisite entrepreneurial 
skills for self-employment and job creation. The SAED programme is 
coordinated by a department in the scheme, headed by a Director on 
SGL 17. The initiative have been doing well in preparing and equipping 
young graduates with economic ideas and requisiate to which they 
heavily rely on after post-service year. 
A Director was appointed on the 9th March, 202 to head this 
department and administer’s it activities. This initiative has been 
doing manifesting well in preparing and equiping our young 
graduates with economic ideas and requisite training to which they 
heavily rely on after post-service year.1 
It has been evidently proven that the answer to the challenge of 
unemployment in Nigeria is entrepreneurship. This is because 
entrepreneurship training enhances creativity in technical and 
vocational skills and inculcates in the individuals the abilities that are 
necessary for them to be self-reliant through technical education and 
                                                           1 Adamu Tahir, Civil Servant Kaduna, 67 years, Interviewed at Tudun Ilu, Kaduna, 
09/02/2021 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND SAED                                                           Abubakar Yusuf Umar 
62 
 
rigorous training. One among other objectives of entrepreneurship 
training is to provide students with skills and motivations in order to 
enhance entrepreneurial endeavor in any enterprise of their choice.2 
Economically, entrepreneurship brings together the factors of 
production; human, land, labour and capital to make available 
products for public development and consumption. It incorporates the 
willingness and ability of a person to explore and exploit investment 
opportunities, establish and manage successful business enterprise.3 
 
Conceptual Clarification 
In every literary work, there are certain concepts that need to be 
explained for a easy comprehension.  Some of the  terms  frequently  
used  in  this  research  include NYSC, SAED, TRAINING, 
ENTERPRENEURSHIP DEVELOPMENT, SENSITIZATION and SKILLS 
ACQUISITION. 
 
NYSC: National Youth Service Corps is a mandatory one year national 
service in Nigeria for every Nigerian tertiary institution graduate who 
is not above thirty (30) years at the time of graduation at accredited 
tertiary institution within and outside the country.  
 
SAED: Skills Acquisition and Enterpreneurship Development is a 
program initiated by Government and the NYSC Management in order 
to inject the ideal of self reliance among the young graduates that are 
undergoing the mandatory one year national service. 
                                                           2 National  Youth  Service  Corps,  “NYSC  SAED  Description  of  Programme  
Activities”  Department  of  Skills Acquisition and Interpreneurship Development, 
October, 2016, pp 3. 3 Usman I. S. etal. ‘‘Students Participation in Enterpreneurship, Skills Acquisition 
Programmes in Adamawa State Polytechnic Yola, Nigeria”, Biodiversity 
International Journal, Vol. 2, Issue 2, Pp 1. 201 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

An Assessment of the Training Modules and Curriculum of SAED 
63 
 
TRAINING: this implies teaching, or developing in oneself or others, 
any skills and knowledge or fitness that relate to specific useful 
competencies. Training has specific goals of improving one’s capability, 
capacity, productivity and performance. It forms the core of 
apprenticeships and provides the backbone of content at institutes of 
technology (also known as technical colleges or polytechnics).44 
ENTERPRENEURSHIP: is the creation or extraction of value. 
Enterpreneurship is viewed as change, generally entails risk beyond 
what is normally encountered in starting a business, which may 
include other values that are simply economic. Entrepreneurship 
development is the process of adding to the stock of existing small, 
medium and big enterprises available to a country by creating and 
promoting many capable potential entrepreneurs who can 
successfully run innovative enterprises, nurture them to grow and 
sustain them, with a view to achieving broad socio-economic 
development goals. 
SKILLS ACQUISITION: Acquisition of skills is a type of learning in 
which repetitive results in enduring changes is associated with an 
individual’s capability to perform a specific task. With enough 
repetition, performance of the task eventually may become 
automatic, with little need for conscious oversight.5 
SENSITIZATION: this is a non-associative learning process in which 
repeated administration of stimulus   results   is the associated with 
progressive   amplification   of   a   response.   Sensitization often is 
characterised by an enhancement of response to a whole class of 
stimuli in addition to the one that is repeated.6 
                                                           4 Job Training - Alaska Department of Worker and Workers Development. 5 S. Dynamics of Skill Acquisition: A Constraints-led Approach. C. Hampaign, I.L.: 
Human Kinetics, 2018 Pp8 6 Ji, R. R. Kohno, T etal. “Central Sensitization and LTP: Do Pain and Memory 
Share Similar Mechanisms? Trends in Neurosciences, 2003. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND SAED                                                           Abubakar Yusuf Umar 
64 
 
Why the SAED Programme? 
According to the population census of 2006, the Nigerian youths 
mostly graduates account for about 70 percent of Nigeria’s population 
figures, which means that they are very important set of people that 
should not be taken for granted in the society. Nigeria’s youth plays 
key role in the National Development efforts hence every government 
administration in Nigeria has to develop a clear policy framework to 
ensure that the enabling environment is created for them to 
maximally realize their creative and productive potentials. This is to 
complement the saying that: 
“The future of humanity and of our planet lies in 
our hands. It lies also in the hands of today's younger 
generation who will pass the torch to future 
generations.’’7  
 
Appropriate strategies to mainstream youth concerns into the 
national development efforts need to be receiving priority attention 
in order to properly face up to the challenges thrown up by the 
unemployment with a clear commitment to human capital 
development with special emphasis on the vibrant youth.8 
However, these young people face many challenges; such as high rate 
of poverty and unemployment,  indiscipline,  ignorance,  inability  to  
access  vital  information,  and  essential welfare  services,  which  have 
made the youth lose hope in themselves. Some high levels of 
violence, crime and high risk of sexual behaviors of any age group are 
seen in the youth, leading many to label them as a source of the 
societal problem rather than its potentials. Reasonable number of  
                                                           7 Federal  Ministry  of  Youth  and  Sport,  “Enhancing  Youth  Development and 
Participation in the Context of Sustainable Development”, Edition 2019, pp 5. 8 Federal Ministry of Youth and Sport, ‘‘Enhancing Youth Development and… 2019, 
Pp 12 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

An Assessment of the Training Modules and Curriculum of SAED 
65 
 
them  that  are  fortunate  to  acquire  education  are  battling  with  
challenges  like unemployment, indiscipline, poverty, among others. 
It became evident that the government has to do something to arrest 
such an unfortunate situation because leaving the situation unchecked 
means it will possibly get worse. Historically, various governments in 
Nigeria have, over the past three decades, evolved policies and 
programmes such as the creation of the National Directorate of 
Employment (NDE) and its skills acquisition programme, National 
Poverty Eradication Programme (NAPEP), Poverty Alleviation 
Programme (PAP), the Subsidy Reinvestment and Empowerment 
Programme (SURE-P), Youth Enterprise With Innovation In Nigeria 
(YOUWIN), Small and Medium Scale Industries Equity Investment 
Scheme (SMIEIS), National Economic Empowerment Development 
Strategy (NEEDS), National Office for Technology Acquisition and 
Promotion (NOTAP), Raw Materials and Development Council 
(RMRDC) amongst others.9 
Despite the above mentioned entrepreneurship development 
programmes, different authors, local and international statistically 
reports that there was never a time in Nigeria’s history where youth 
unemployment is as serious and posing a great threat as now. Efforts 
to further widen the scope of entrepreneurship development saw the 
introduction of policies on entrepreneurship education into tertiary 
institutions by the Federal Government of Nigeria through the 
National Universities Commission (NUC).10 
In 2006, the Federal Government oversee the inclusion of 
entrepreneurship education as a compulsory course for students in 
                                                           9 Adedeji Oluwaseun and Isaiah Babatunde, “The Skills Acquisition and 
Enterpreneurship Development Programme among Corps Members in Ibadan, 
Nigeria”. ResearchGate Publications, August, 2018, pp 2. 10 Adedeji Oluwaseun and Isaiah Babatunde, “The Skills Acquisition and 
Enterpreneurship Development…. Pp 3 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND SAED                                                           Abubakar Yusuf Umar 
66 
 
all universities. To corroborate this effort, the implementation of the 
SAED programme into the NYSC Scheme in 2012 by the President 
Yar’adua led administration was to orientate and introduce the youth 
to take alternative career options instead of seeking for white collar 
jobs, which are in limited supply.11 The NYSC SAED program was 
created in regads to the deliberation of the government and other 
top officials aimed at addressing the challenges of unemployment. It 
is also aimed at debunking the view that the Scheme is merely a 
burden on the shoulders of government. It is equally aimed at 
instilling the spirit of self-reliance among the Corps members, with a 
clear intention of addressing Post Service unemployment and 
achieving the Scheme’s objectives. This fact was clearly evident in the 
statement of the current Director General, when he was asked in 
an interview about his plan to enable the Scheme become self reliant, 
he said: 
“You see, because we realised that many people see 
NYSC as a burden, the Management sat down 
immediately I came on board. We resolved that we 
must find ways to generate something and bring to 
the table. That is why we resuscitated our 
Ventures. We now have NYSC Bread and Table Water 
Company in Kubwa. Their products are everywhere 
in Kubwa. So, we want to see how we can replicate 
same in the states, so that during orientation exercises 
we can get those items from our production plants, and 
feed our Corps members in Camps.”12 
 
The goal of the NYSC Scheme includes the development of youths, 
especially graduates with sound mind to become result-oriented, 
major drivers towards the actualization of national cohesion, unity 
                                                           11 Ibid 12 Brigadier Shuaibu, DG, “How We are Rebuilding NYSC for Youth Empowerment, 
Revenue Generation”, Economic Confidential, May 17, 2020, Pp80 - 81 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

An Assessment of the Training Modules and Curriculum of SAED 
67 
 
and national coexistence. It is an exercise that nurtures the 
individual mindset and makes them bring out their best in serving the 
nation for the purpose of national development and nation building.   
The national Service develops good attributes among the youth 
while giving them a reasonable mentality and pride towards their 
country, which is an impetus towards achieving national integration.    
However, due to enormous challenges that include under-employment 
and unemployment confronting Nigeria, alot of features have been 
added to the Scheme, which include Skill Acquisition and 
Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) programmes in 2012. The 
aim of the programme is to encourage the acquisition of skills for 
the Nigerian graduate for self-reliance which is its core mandate.13  
The program has since been used as a mechanism towards 
addressing the challenges of unemployment in Nigeria.14  The goals 
of the Scheme include creating awareness among young graduates 
who are Corps members for acquisition of basic skill training for 
entrepreneurship development. The SAED as an important 
department of the NYSC and headed by a Director and is made up of 
three (3) divisions namely: Programme, Partnership and 
Empowerment Divisions. 
The department is saddled the responsibilities of: 
• Giving orientation and training of over 200,000 Corps 
members to fully grasped the skills acquisition yearly. 
                                                           13 Deeborm MB. Tambari and Daerego I. Taylor, “The Influence of National Youth 
Service Corps Enterpreneurship, Skills Acquisition Programmes on Youth 
Empowerment In Rivers State” International Journals of Humanities, Social 
Sciences and Education (IJHSSE), Volume 7, Issue 6, June 2020, Pp 146 - 147 14 Oladeji O. Fatoki “The Skills Acquisition Programme and Youth Empowerment 
in Ondo State of Nigeria: An Empirical Study”, Global Journal of Human Social 
Science: A Arts & Humanities-Psychology, Vol. 19, Issue 6, Version 1.0, 2019. Pp 
109. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND SAED                                                           Abubakar Yusuf Umar 
68 
 
• Assist in training and tutoring of 100,000 young graduates in 
skills acquisition and entrepreneurship development for self-
reliance annually. 
• Developing an entrepreneurship partnership aimed towards 
self-reliance of the youths. 
• Providing new ways and methods on how best Nigerian 
youths’ employment and empowerment programmes are 
implemented. 
• Supporting evidence-driven funding programmes to formulate 
a policy that enhances Nigerian youths’ employment and 
empowerment. 
• Organising Orientation training programmes on the 
importance of Corps members enrolling into Skills Acquisition 
and Entrepreneurship Development programme. 
• Developing of a standard curriculum for the in-camp skill 
acquisition exercise. 
• Identification of relevant organizations at state level to provide 
training and mentorship in specific skills sets. 
• Attaching   the   Corps   members   to   the   various   
organizations   for   skills   acquisition   and entrepreneurship 
development. 
• On-going monitoring and supervision of trainee Corps 
members and Facilitating and fast racking access to available 
funding opportunities.15 
 
The  sole  responsibility  of  SAED  programme  is  to  encourage  
Nigerians generally, and Nigerian youths in particular, to be 
highly involved in entrepreneurial activities thereby creating jobs  
not just for themselves but to employ others in the long run. 
Other objectives include enhancement of partnership between the 
                                                           15 National Youth Service Corps, “NYSC SAED Description of 
Programme Activities”....... 2016, Pp 05. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

An Assessment of the Training Modules and Curriculum of SAED 
69 
 
public and the private sector for the purpose of developing skill-
based development for self-reliance among Nigerian youths and 
graduates. In order to reduce the rate of unemployment among 
Nigerian graduates roaming about on the street with certificates and 
qualifications without having a meaningful source of livelihood, the 
concept of entrepreneurial education (training) was introduced into 
tertiary institutions as entrepreneurship and vocational training in 
Nigeria.16 The SAED program is aimed at impacting positively on the 
lives of young people who are serving Corps members undergoing the 
compulsory one-year national service to the father land.  The 
programme was structured mainly for Corps members to participate 
during the orientation course and throughout their one-year service 
(post-camp). It is expected that every Corps member learns a skill that 
is industrially based which can position them to become job creators 
rather than job hunters and hence reduce the number of unemployed 
graduates in the country.17 
The department of SAED as mentioned earlier has three divisions. 
The department focuses its attention mainly on equipping the Corps 
members  on  different  areas  of  their  interest  with  specific  
professional  technical/vocational training and skills on how to 
identify their skills based on their peculiar interests and realities.  
The history of entrepreneurship training in the NYSC dates as far 
back as the commencement of the Scheme. The mandate of the 
Scheme towards achieving economic empowerment among Corps 
members is embedded in section 1, Sub-Section 3(d) of the NYSC 
                                                           16 Usman  IS.  Waziri  and  Abdullahi  A.  Babayo, “Students Participation in 
Interpreneurship Skills acquisition Programmes in Adamawa State Polytechnic 
Yola, Nigeria”, Biodiversity International Journal, MedCrave  Research gate, 
Volume 2, Issue 2,  2018, Pp 181. 17 Muhammad Sani Yahaya, Civil Servant, 45years, Interviewed at his residence 
opposite NYSC Headquarter, Kinsasha Kaduna, 14/02/2021.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND SAED                                                           Abubakar Yusuf Umar 
70 
 
Act.18 This division focuses more on developing the 
business/enterprise capacities in Corps members who by virtue of 
their undergraduate training have one way or the other acquired 
certain level of competencies in specific fields, and those Corps 
members who have undergone the skills acquisition training and 
have the full intention to broaden their posibilities of attaining self-
reliance. It is at this level of the department that issues like feasibility 
studies, development of business plans, marketing strategies, product 
branding,  product advertisement, financial management, access to 
funding opportunities, and legal franchising, among others are been 
vigorously and thoroughly discussed.19 
Another important component of the above mentioned three 
divisions is the monitoring and evaluation unit whose sole 
responsibilities focus on effectiveness, managing and deliver on set 
project outcomes. The unit specifically provides every framework 
needed for the measurement of performance against set target, 
thereby identifying any form of deviation with the clear intention of 
correcting them as well as providing essential information on 
implementation for project improvement and decision making. For 
effectiveness and getting the best out of the M&E unit, a working 
system has to be outlined for the provision of a running plan to keep 
the Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) as an integral part of the overall 
project implementation. With this therefore, there has been a standard 
structure with key positions for effective functions of the Monitory and 
Evaluation Unit. the structure serves as the starting point for the 
Monitoring and Evaluation functions. This ensures execution of the 
responsibilities within the context of project management 
                                                           18 National Youth Service Corps, “NYSC SAED Description of Programme 
Activities”....... 2016, Pp 11. 19 Adedeji Oluwaseun and Isaiah Babatunde, “The Skills Acquisition and 
Enterpreneurship….2018, Pp 3. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

An Assessment of the Training Modules and Curriculum of SAED 
71 
 
framework.20 Other key aspects considered under the monitoring and 
evaluations include: 
.  Special training on the project for the personnel of the M&E 
.  Development of a performance framework based on the project 
strategic plan 
.  Costed Monitoring and Evaluation work plan 
.  Development of appropriate tools for data capture and 
reporting 
.  Procurement and installation of relevant softwares for data 
analysis & warehousing, and development of a data use plan, 
specifically, by providing a mechanism for tracking 
implementation and documentation of project activities.   
The routine key indicators to be measured and evaluated include: 
1.  Number  of  Corps  members  enrolling  and  completing  
various  skills  acquisition  and enterpreneurship programs 
across various states to be captured. 
2.    Number of business plans developed disaggregated by type 
3.    Number of successful business plans disaggregated by type 
4.    Number of stakeholders meetings convened 
5. Number and type of stakeholders participating in stakeholders 
meetings.21 
 
The Growth Sectors of the NYSC SAED Program 
Capacity Building: This is a strategy that is basically associated with 
actions to improve organisational and the SAED project effectiveness. It 
is concerned with organisational capacity of the NYSC SAED 
Department to fulfill her role as the center piece of co-ordination and 
drivers of the project. Secondly, they equally focus on building the 
                                                           20 National Youth Service Corps, “NYSC SAED Description of Programme 
Activities”....... 2016, Pp 11 - 12. 21 National Youth Service Corps, ‘‘NYSC SAED Description of Programme 
Activities’’…..2016, Pp 11 - 12 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND SAED                                                           Abubakar Yusuf Umar 
72 
 
capacity of Corps members from employment seekers to employers of 
labour. The capacity building include sensitization and mobilisation of 
Corps members for enrolment into the SAED programme under the 12 
sectors for training. The 12 different sectors play a vital role in 
contributing towards economic growth with each  of  this  sectors  
having sub-sectors that the young graduates serving are expected 
to be trained, based on their area of interest.22 These sectors are: 
1.  Agro -Allied: This sector has sub-sectors that include fish 
farming, cow fattening, grass-cutter farming, livestock feed, 
Poultry Farming, Piggery, Rabbitery, Snails Farming, Beans 
Cultivation and Honey.  
2.  Automobile:  This  sector  covers  Auto  Electrical,  Spray  
Painting,  Upholstery,  Wheel Alinement and Balancing, 
Engines, and Air Conditioning. 
3.  Culture & Tourism: this sector covers Leather Works, 
Exterior Decoration, Beads, and Design. 
4.  Cosmetology: The sector comprises of Production of 
Cosmetics, Soaps, Detergents & Household Products, Hair 
Styling, and Laundry Services. 
5.   Construction:  aluminium and Steel Works, Construction of 
public Toilet, and Electrical Installation. 
6.  Education:  education  cover  areas  such  as  Training,  Day  
Care  Centers,  Driving  School, Nursery and Primary School. 
7. Environment: Plastering, Moldings, Ceilings, Screeds, 
Painting, Interior, Decoration, tiles, and Blocks, and Carpentry. 
8.  Film & Photography: P & P covers fields such as Editing, 
Location Manager, Photography, Researcher, Runner, Camera 
and Sign Operation. 
9.  Food Processing/Preservation:  Catering, Cakes, Snacks, 
Wheat & Flour, Beverages & drinks. 
                                                           22 Brig. Gen S. Ibrahim, “Selected Speeches and Strides of 18th NYSC Director-
General” National Youth Service Corps, 2020, Pp 175. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

An Assessment of the Training Modules and Curriculum of SAED 
73 
 
10. Horticulture & Landscaping: Compost Preparation,     
Horticulture, Plant Nursery, Orchards, Tree Planting. 
11. Information Communication Technology:  Hardware,  
Software, Programming, Repairs, Online Business, Business 
Center, Website, and GSM Repair. 
12. Power & Energy: Generator Maintenance, Solar Energy 
Conversion, Inverter, Plumbing, Welding, and Oil and Gas.23 
 
SAED Training Sensitization 
The  SAED  training  and  sensitization  are conducted  annually  for  
Corps  members with an approximate coverage of 200,000 Corps 
members  across  the  37  NYSC  Orientation  Camps.  The sole 
objective of the said event is basically to increase awareness, while in 
the long run, it is to achieve positive behavioural change towards 
enterpreneurship and skills acquisition by Corps members. The 
sensitization is in the form of enterpreneurship motivational speech 
to encourage the development of entrepreneurship skills which 
usually hold for four (4) days, lasting two (2) to (3) hours each day 
with specific emphasis on SAED facts that include: 24 
 
Overview of Enterpreneurship 
Are You the Right Person to Start a Business?  
What is business opportunity? 
What is a business idea? 
Identification of good business ideas  
Conducting market research  
Presentation of business idea  
Generation of personal business idea 
Analysis of personal business idea & and choosing the best one  
                                                           23 Participant’s Workbook, “Starting My Own Business” Department of NYSC Skills 
Acquisition and Enterpreneurship Development, 2016, Pp 44 24  National Youth Service Corps, “NYSC SAED Description of  Programme 
Activities”....... 2016, Pp 17. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND SAED                                                           Abubakar Yusuf Umar 
74 
 
Assessment of the environmental impact on planned business Personal  
Sources of advice and assistance as an enterpreneur  
Writing a bankable business plan 
Choosing of a legal form of business: license and permit required 
Drafting of marketing strategy and plan 
Staffing, legal responsibilities and insurance 
Costing of one goods and services (manufacture/retailer) 
Financial planning 
Required start-up capital 
Business simulation game.25 
 
SAED TRAINING 
One of the significant factors that determine the success of the SAED 
initiative is training. It provides the opportunity to enhance one’s 
knowledge, attitudinal change, and acquisition of skills with 
tremendous improvement. Different categories of personnel are 
employed and invited annually including motivational speakers, 
master trainers, enterpreneurship colleges, other skills building 
training (web club etc.) SAED programme staff/managers, schedule 
officers/project supervisors all over the state and information 
technology experts. The service of the above mention experts is 
utilised during their fresher training across Orientation Camps all over 
the country to increase knowledge and improve skills at all levels. 
Each training is packaged for effectiveness and efficiency using 
relevant resources, in fact relevant resource personnel with 
outstanding experience are drawn yearly from different Non-
Governmental Organisations (NGOs) as individual consultants and 
training facilitators. While selecting this trainers, certain criteria are 
considered before their services are employed, and these features 
include: 
                                                           25  National Youth Service Corps, “NYSC SAED Description of  Programme 
Activities”....... 2016, Pp 17. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

An Assessment of the Training Modules and Curriculum of SAED 
75 
 
1.  Previous experience and exposure in training 
2.  Previous facilitation skills that could be improved upon 
3.  Skills in motivation, enterpreneurship and mobilisation events. 
4.  Involvement in the implementation of SAED programmes 
5.  Availability for the training 
6.   Must be interested, committed and share the passion of the     
project.26 
After the complete training session, a final micro training event is 
organised and conducted to determine the number of trainers 
available for the programme, and a team of master trainers is created 
to handle the future training. At this stage, technical assistance is 
equally sought from NGOs and other relevant individuals as part of the 
process of mentoring in training.27  
 
SAED Corps Members Training 
At first, the Corps members are introduced to enterpreneurship 
training, those among them that indicate interest towards the 
programme are selected to participate in a more intensive skills 
acquisition  training  that  lasts  for  only  7  days  (1  week).  At  this  
stage  of  intensive  skills acquisition training, each Corps member 
selected is expected to individually identify One (1) skills set on their 
own in their respective area of interest. Migration of Corps members 
from one skill programme to another is absolutely discouraged, and 
therefore, not allowed. 
During the in-camp orientation programme, a comprehensive 
curriculum is organised by the NYSC SAED department in 
collaboration with the International Labour Organisation (ILO), and 
                                                           26  National Youth Service Corps, ‘‘NYSC SAED Description of Programme 
Activities’’…..2016, Pp 19. 27 National Youth Service Corps, ‘‘NYSC SAED Description of Programme 
Activities’’…..2016, Pp 19. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND SAED                                                           Abubakar Yusuf Umar 
76 
 
UNFPA among others. The course content of the well articulated 
curriculum developed by the NYSC SAED Department in partnership 
with other relevant international organisations and agencies covers 
the 12 sectors of the skills acquisition and enterpreneurship 
development programme, and they include; Agro Allied, Automobile, 
Beautification, Construction, Cosmetology, Culture & Tourism, 
Education, Environment, Film & Photography, Food 
Processing/Preservation, Information Communication Technology, 
and Power & Energy. 
The  training  of  Corps  members  is  categorically  divided  into  two  
different  phases,  namely In-Camp and Post-Camp Training, and this 
was confirmed by the Director General of the NYSC Scheme while 
commenting on the SAED programme he said: 
“NYSC has a programme called ‘Skills Acquisition and 
Enterpreneurship Training. The programme was 
launched in 2012 and we have trained more than 1.4 
million ex-Corps members in this Skills acquisition 
training.  “We have in-camp as well as post-camp 
training.”28 
In-Camp  Training:  at  this  stage,  the  focus  of  the  project  is 
centered  on  the  creation  of enterpreneurial skills and the 
awakening of the spirit of self reliant, by displaying different doors of 
opportunities for the Corps members to individually identify the 
most suitable and convenient one for themselves considering their 
personality, level of professional training, circumstances, capabilities, 
and environmental factors that frequently come into play while 
pursuing such goal. Similarly, another area worthy to be mentioned is 
the special attention given in the area of the development of  
marketable  business  plans  to  enable  the  Corps  members  attract 
                                                           28  Enterpreneurship: “NYSC Trained Over 1.4 Million Corps Members Since 2012 - 
DG”, Nigerian Tribune, February 18, 2020, Pp 93. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

An Assessment of the Training Modules and Curriculum of SAED 
77 
 
fund from relevant financial institutions for start up after the 
completion of their training.29 
 
The Post-Camp Training: The post-camp training exercise is the 
most rigorous, thorough, and intensive training exercise for Corps 
members that previuosly indicated their interest in the various sectors 
of the SAED. At this stage, Corps members are equipped with technical 
and vocational skills with various business ideas to guarantee their 
competency in maintaining the business and withstanding every 
difficulty or challenges that might arise during their venture 
experience. The training of Corps members at this stage, is organised 
and conducted by SAED and NYSC various partner organisations or 
enterprises both private and public from national to state with 
records of outstanding performances, cognate competences, and 
experience in different area of enterpreneurship and skills 
acquisition. Same organisations offer mentoring and fund linkages as 
well as easy access to market.30 
It is important to note that at this stage, a special training is equally 
conducted by private and public organisations with unparallel 
competence and comparative advantages like the NDE, NBTI, ILO, 
SMEDAN, BOI, etc. This training is usually conducted for two weeks 
and it laps into the post camp curriculum. They train, coach, and 
mentor Corps members on how to start up and conduct their 
businesses, writing of business plan, and job creation rather than job 
seeking.31 
                                                           29 National Youth Service Corps, ‘‘NYSC SAED Description of Programme 
Activities’’…..2016, Pp 19. 30 National Youth Service Corps, ‘‘NYSC SAED Description of Programme 
Activities’’…..2016, Pp 19. 31 Ibid 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND SAED                                                           Abubakar Yusuf Umar 
78 
 
The Corps members are absolutely doing well and following their 
training with keen interest, this is so because, some of the Corps 
members displayed their skills by making tremendous use of their 
acquired knowledge through SAED to produce different products 
needed during circumstances of need. The management of the 
Scheme through the Director General has nothing but praise to these 
Corps entrepreneurs for most appreciative innovation and 
performance when he commented: 
“In terms of performance, our Corps members are 
doing exceptionally well in SAED. Some of them are 
into fish and snail farming, among others. Some of 
them are even working in our NYSC farms in Kebbi, 
(Saminaka) Kwali, and other parts of the country. Yet 
we need additional farmlands for the NYSC. But we 
have approached some of our State Governors, sequel 
to my address to them at one of their meetings of the 
Governor’s Forum. We want to key into the Federal 
Government’s Policy on local content on agric business. 
This is because we don’t want to be a burden on 
government. Therefore, we must continue to look for 
ways to internally generate our revenue.”32 
 
While still on the effect of SAED training on Corps members and its 
relevance. A Federal Road Safety Commander Rotimi Adeleye opined 
that: 
“The Fabrication of machines and production of 
materials, such as hand sanitizers, face masks, and 
liquid soap, was enough evidence that the Corps 
members could take the country out of the economic 
mess in which it had found itself” “I have been to 
                                                           32 Rotimi Adeleye, ‘‘Adopt NYSC Skills Acquisition Programme, FRSC Advises 
MDAs’’ Nigeria Tribune, May 25, 2020. Pp 76. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

An Assessment of the Training Modules and Curriculum of SAED 
79 
 
orientation camps severally, and the seriousness with 
which the managers of the Scheme handle the SAED 
programme is enough for the government to expand its 
scope.”33 
 
It is evident that the SAED programme and training of Corps 
members has recorded a great success so far among the young 
graduates since its inception. Statistics shows that 1,132,409 Corps 
members have been sensitized, trained and impacted by the 
programme. About 971,272 have  so  far successfully completed both 
the in-camp and the post-camp training exercise in different 
sectors across the country while 12,061 are known to have 
successfully established different types of enterprises some of the 
successful beneficiaries include;.34 
 
Table 4.1  
NAME STATE 
CODE 
SECTOR PRODUCT/ 
ENTERPRISE 
STATE/LOCA 
TION 
Alozie C. 
Donald 
JG/11B/885 Plants Plants/Greenfiel 
d Associates 
Ummuakuru Itu, 
Mbaise, Imo 
State 
Ipinlaye A. 
Idowu 
BO/11A/0082 Fish 
Farming 
Fingerlings Majashan 
Ajipowu, Ondo 
State 
Abu Salifu FCT/09A/2245 Cattle 
Rearing 
Cattle Ayingba-Ejule 
Jnct. Kogi 
Ologunro 
Bolanle 
KB/09C/0485 Poultry 
Farming 
Chickens Aliero Quarters, 
K/Kebbi, Kebbi 
State 
                                                           33 Rotimi Adeleye, “Adopt NYSC Skills Acquisition Programme, FRSC Advises 
MDAs” Nigerian Tribune,....2020 Pp 76. 34 National Youth Service Corps, “40th Year Book: Anniversary Commemorative 
Edition” 2013, Pp 62 - 64. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND SAED                                                           Abubakar Yusuf Umar 
80 
 
Christoper 
A. 
Esuga 
--- Poultry 
Farming 
Finerlings Lafia, Nasarawa 
State 
 
All said and done, the successful completion of the training is 
worthless if the trained Corps cannot attract a startup capital to 
explore the knowledge acquired during the intensive 
entrepreneurship and skills acquisition training by displaying their 
skills to drive the economy forward through the business and 
entrepreneurship world. With this therefore, the NYSC SAED 
programme is well connected through various partnership and 
collaborations with private and public organisation/enterprises that 
are ever ready to invest on the trained Corps members in order to 
help them explore their wonderful intelligence.35  A great number of 
the trained Corps members were able to access funding 
opportunities, some of these organisations that aided the funding are 
as follows: 
 
T able 4: 
S/N NAME OF 
ORGANISATION 
NUMBER OF CORPS 
THAT ACCESS THE 
LOAN 
AMOUNT 
1. Bank of Industry 1,077 N540.02 
million 
2. Central Bank of 
Nigeria 
07 N15 million 
3. Credit Direct 13,344 N629.016 
million 
TOTAL  14,428 N1.184 
Billion 
Source: Selected speeches Edition 
                                                           35 Brig. Gen. S. Ibrahim, “Selected Speeches and Strides of 18th NYSC Director-
General” …..Pp 170 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

An Assessment of the Training Modules and Curriculum of SAED 
81 
 
SAED Curriculum 
The SAED curriculum is categorised into four key component 
topics, with each addressing a topic that is very vital to the success of 
the programme. This four components cover the learning objectives of 
the programme. They are; 
 
1. Enterpreneurship Sensitisation and Motivation 
Entrepreneurship development is the process of adding to the stock 
of existing small, medium and big enterprises available to a country 
by creating and promoting many capable potential entrepreneurs who 
can successfully run innovative enterprises, nurture them to grow 
and sustain them, with a view to achieving broad socio-economic 
development goals. Given the generally held view that 
entrepreneurship  development is the key to poverty eradication, 
employment generation, and rapid economic development.36 
The enterpreneurship Sensitization and motivation is a session that 
covers 3-hours with particular attention to sensitizing Corps 
members to the reality of life outside service, indicating workforce 
statistics that says; about 10% of the Nigerian workforce has a wage 
or salary job, 38% work in agricultural sector, while the other 52% 
are either self-employed, own small businesses or are unemployed.37  
At this stage, Corps members are constantly reminded that they 
stand a better chance of becoming economically active as 
enterpreneurs or becoming self-employed in various kind of 
businesses than having an opportunity to secure a job. They are 
reminded or motivated to identify business opportunities rather than 
exclusively focusing their attention on acquiring a white collar job.   
                                                           36 Participant’s Workbook, “Starting My Own Business” Department of NYSC Skills 
Acquisition and Enterpreneurship Development, 2016, Pp 45. 37 Ibid 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND SAED                                                           Abubakar Yusuf Umar 
82 
 
The section further explores businesses and enlightens the Corps 
members on who is truly an entrepreneur.38 
2.  Enterpreneurship Development 
This is usually a 6-hours session that introduces Corps members to 
some of the fundamental skills that serves as foundation that every 
enterpreneur need to smoothly run his business. These skills ranges 
from personal qualities, such as taking responsibility, leadership, 
ethics and management skills that include communication and time 
management. The topic always conclude with a review of how 
Corps members can match their acquired skills to various community 
needs in order to generate prospective business ideas and an 
assessment of demand as a feasibility test for business ideas. Finally 
after conclusion, the Corps members are introduced to the 12 different 
potential  business  sectors  that  are  critically  assess  and  explore  
during the skills acquisition training.39 
 
3.  Skills Acquisition in a Business Sector 
Skills Acquisition as a topic deals with a more deeper approach in 
exploring business skills, and is taught  in a  more  practical  manner  
using  one  of  the  twelve  business  sectors  as  context. Although, 
there is no specific time allocated to this topic, this is as a result of the 
fact that it is highly recognised as one of the most important aspect of 
the SAED that is been taught practically with its handbook and 
materials been used for self-study during the Corps members service 
year. The use of one of the twelve business sectors as context is not 
restrict the future ambition of Corps members who might have an 
interest in other sectors of the business, but rather,  it  is a mere 
recognition within resource constraint of the orientation camp, a 
limited number of options are possible. 
                                                           38 Ibid 39 Participant’s Workbook, “Starting My Own Business” Department of NYSC Skills 
Acquisition… 2016, pp 46 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

An Assessment of the Training Modules and Curriculum of SAED 
83 
 
The first unit of this topic introduces the chosen business sectors and 
critically assess its potential market. Other units under this topic 
covers the material resources required for operations, cost estimation  
and  pricing,  rules,  regulation  and  guidelines  of  business,  
management  of  the workforce, mobilisation of financial and human 
resources, and finally compilation of business plan. Towards the end 
of the orientation camp. Time is usually dedicated to an exhibition 
which give the Corps members the opportunity to display their 
products, businesses, and then practice their marketing presentation 
and exploring of their selling skills.40 
 
4.  Information and Communications Technology (ICT) 
As part of the SAED curriculum, ICT in business is used as a self-study 
topic with the clear intention of introducing the Corps members to 
digital marketing and digital branding. There is no specific time 
allocated to this topic, but its resources and materials are always made 
available to Corps members to study in the camp or any time 
convenient to them.41   The introduction of Information and 
Communication Technology (ICT) to the NYSC SAED Training and 
curriculum is as a result of the fact that ICT has considerably 
transformed lives in the 21st century, and youths are at the 
forefront of the ICT revolution in Nigeria as in other parts of the 
world. From electronic  media  such as Television, communication 
media such as the mobile phone, to the computer-based  devices  
(both  hardware  and  software),  ICT  provides great opportunities 
for productive engagement of the youth in terms of fueling creativity 
                                                           40 Participant’s Workbook, “Starting My Own Business” Department of NYSC Skills 
Acquisition… 2016, pp 46 41 Adedeji O. Adewusi and Isaiah B. Adisa, “The Skills Acquisition and 
Enterpreneurship Development Programme among Corps Members in Ibadan” 
Research Gate, https://www.researchgate.net/publication/ 32752365 August, 
2018, Pp 12. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND SAED                                                           Abubakar Yusuf Umar 
84 
 
and enhancing efficiency and productivity, creation of new jobs, and 
enhancement of standards of living and personal fulfillment.42 
The  national  licensing  of  GSM  operators  in  Nigeria  in  2000,  for  
example,  has  opened  up opportunities  for engagement and 
economic advancement of millions of youths in Nigeria in various 
realms as staff in the telephone companies, distributors and 
marketers phone sets, mobile phone repairers, and sellers of phone 
recharge card, among others.43  In fact, the use of ICT in mobilisation 
process has for long been used when the NYSC Scheme started the 
computerize data collection in mobilisation process during the 2014 
Batch C service year. The year saw the use  of  biometric  capture  for  
monthly  clearance,  various  reports  on  Corps  data  including 
automated printing of the certificate of national service and 
Exemption Certificates, and the use of computerized communication 
equipment in the distress Center established in February 2012, for the 
safety of the Corps members. While commenting on the development, 
Brig. Gen. Shuaibu stated that: 
“In view of the strategic importance of the facility 
and the desire of the Scheme to meet current   
challenges, we have transformed it (Distress Center) 
to an Information Center with operational lines.  
Just last month, we got additional toll-free line from 
                                                           42  Abiodun Egbetokun, “The Design and Impact of Apprenticeship-Based 
Enterpreneurship Intervention for Promoting Youth Empowerment in Nigeria” 
Thesis, National Center for Technology Management Ile-Ife, Nigeria, August, 2018, 
Pp 82. 43Federal Ministry of Youth and Sport, “Enhancing Youth Development 
and Participation in the Context of Sustainable Development”, Edition 
2019, pp 601. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

An Assessment of the Training Modules and Curriculum of SAED 
85 
 
9mobile to further strengthen the operation of the 
center.”44 
The  expansion  in  the  computer  and  computing  field  in  Nigeria  has  
also  witnessed  the engagement  of  the  youth in the ICT sector in 
the various domains, including sales, repairs, software engineering, 
development and use of apps, internet-based marketing and internet-
based service delivery. ICT has the potential to power business 
innovation centres and improve the rate of doing businesses, improve 
educational activities and expand opportunities for learning, and 
generally improve the efficiency and productivity of industries all of 
which have significant positive implications for the youth. Thus, ICT is 
a key pillar in advancing youth development agenda and is central to 
improving the youth employment rate and well-being in Nigeria.45 
Already,  the  SAED  program  has  a  strong  focus  on  empowering 
youth with ICT skills and prepare them for global competition as part 
of the laudable ICT vision, and Nigeria has incorporated  computer  
education  as  one  of  the  subjects  to  be  offered  at  various  levels  of 
education.  Despite  the  advancement  so  far  witnessed  in  the  ICT  
sector, there are yet huge untapped opportunities in Nigeria as the 
country currently ranks low in the Networked Readiness Index (or 
Technology Readiness index), which ranks countries in terms of 
performance in leveraging information and communications 
technologies to boost competitiveness, innovation and well-being. The 
index, published by the World Economic Forum, ranked Nigeria in the 
90th position in 2008 and in 119th position out of 139 countries in the 
year 2016. This ranking shows that Nigeria needs to considerably 
intensify efforts towards ensuring that her youth and the 
                                                           44  Skills Acquisition: “NYSC Trains 700,000 Corps Members: disburses 
N540m to 325 Corps Enterpreneurs” Economic Confidential, May 17, 
2020, Pp 72. 
45  Federal Ministry of Youth and Sport, “Enhancing Youth Development  and 
Participation in the Context of Sustainable Development”, Edition 2019, pp 37. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND SAED                                                           Abubakar Yusuf Umar 
86 
 
population at large benefit maximally from the opportunities offered in 
economic and development terms which is one of the focus of the 
NYSC SAED program to prepare the young graduates in order to tap 
this potentials and transform the image of the country in the field of 
ICT.46 
 
Conclusion 
The NYSC Scheme has proved to be one of the most promising 
organisations that has greatly impacted positively on the lives of the 
Nigerian Youth since its inception in 1973. The creation of SAED 
programme under the National Youth Service Corps has proved to be 
an outstanding step towards tackling unemployment which is one of 
the major challenges confronting not just the  youth,  or  Nigeria  but  
the  entire  continent  in  general.  The  creation  of  this  Scheme  has 
impacted greatly on the lives of the young graduates who serve 
the country one year mandatory service through the Scheme. The 
NYSC in collaboration with both public, and private organisations or 
enterprises most especially the International Labour Organisation was 
able to organise a comprehensive training and curriculum modules 
for the training of graduates on Skills Acquisition and 
Enterpreneurship Development with the clear intention of preparing 
the youth to be self reliant, rather than job seekers 
The  youth  through  this  curriculum  and  training  both  in-camp  and  
post-camp  are rigorously educated to be business owners, and they 
are offered the opportunity to attract start up fund after successful 
completion of their training by different governmental and non-
governmental organisations. The paper has elaborately discussed 
the different phases of the training and how fund is disbursed 
including those that benefited as a source of reference. 
 
                                                           46 Federal Ministry of Youth and Sport, “Enhancing Youth Development and… 2019. 
Pp 54 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

An Assessment of the Training Modules and Curriculum of SAED 
87 
 
Bibliography 
 
Abiodun Egbetokun, “The Design and Impact of 
Apprenticeship - Based Entrepreneurship 
Adamu Tahir, Civil Servant Kaduna, 67 years, Interviewed at Tudun 
Ilu, Kaduna, 09/02/2021 
Participant’s Workbook, “Starting My Own Business” Department of 
NYSC Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development, 
2016, Pp 44.Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development, 
October 2016. 
Adedeji  O.  Adewusi  and  Isaiah  B.  Adisa,  “The  Skills  Acquisition  
and  Entrepreneurship 
Development Programme among Corps Members in Ibadan” 
Research Gate, https://www.researchgate.net/publication/ 
32752365 August 2018. 
Adedeji Oluwaseun and Isaiah Babatunde, “The Skills Acquisition and 
Entrepreneurship Development Programme among Corps 
Members in Ibadan, Nigeria”. ResearchGate Publications, 
August 2018. 
Adedeji Oluwaseun and Isaiah Babatunde, “The Skills Acquisition and 
Entrepreneurship Development Programme among Corps 
Members in Ibadan, Nigeria”. ResearchGate Publications, 
August 2018. 
Brig.  Gen.  S  Ibrahim,  “Selected  Speeches  and  Strides  of  18th  
NYSC  Director-General” National Youth Service Corps, 2020. 
David K. Button C. & Benneth, S. Dynamics of Skill Acquisition: A 
Constraints-led Approach. 
CHampaign, IL:Human Kinetics, 2018. 
Deeborm MB. Tambari and Daerego I. Taylor, “The Influence of 
National Youth Service Corps Entrepreneurship, Skills 
Acquisition Programmes on Youth Empowerment In Rivers 
State” Entrepreneurship:  “NYSC  Trained  Over  1.4  Million  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND SAED                                                           Abubakar Yusuf Umar 
88 
 
Corps  Members  Since  2012  -  DG”, Nigerian Tribune, 
February 18, 2020. 
Federal Ministry of Youth and Sport, “Enhancing Youth Development 
and Participation in the Context of Sustainable Development”, 
Edition 2019. 
Federal Ministry of Youth and Sport, “Enhancing Youth Development 
and Participation in the Context of Sustainable Development”, 
Edition 2019. 
Ji, R. R. Kohno, T etal. “Central Sensitization and LTP: Do Pain and 
Memory Share Similar Mechanisms? Trends in Neurosciences,” 
2003. 
Job Training - Alaska Department of Worker and Workers Development. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the War against Poverty (WAP)... 
89 
 
    55 55    
    National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the War 
Against Poverty (WAP) Agro-Entrepreneurs’ 
Empowerment Programme in Nigeria, 2009-2020 
 
 
Ozinna Tochukwu Ntukogu 
 
 
Introduction 
All over the world, poverty is one of the most disturbing challenges 
facing states with serious socio-economic and political implications. In 
developing economies like African states, poverty remains the major 
bane stifling growth and development in the continent. This is because, 
poverty is not unconnected to issues of insecurity, corruption, illiteracy, 
high mortality rate, high incidence of diseases, prostitution, high rate of 
violent and non-violent crimes, weak democratic institutions and even 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                       Ozinna T. Ntukogu 
90 
 
issues of insurgency and terrorism, etcetera. For this reason, different 
states, including international organisations have continued to confront 
issues of poverty through various means and strategies. In fact, this 
was why 189 heads of state and governments, during the Millennium 
Summit of the United Nations (UN) in September 2000, declared to free 
their people from wretchedness, extreme poverty and their underlying 
causes. This declaration produced eight target goals known as the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) set to be met by 2015.1 
Among the goals listed, poverty and hunger eradication made up 
number one goal. It could be argued that poverty and hunger 
eradication feature as the number one goal of the MDGs because of the 
strategic impact they have on development planning and 
implementation processes. Hence, the UN recognises that poverty and 
hunger eradication is the foundation upon which other development 
goals can be built. Since then, different programmes were launched 
through governmental and non-governmental institutions so as to 
ensure that these would be achieved by 2015. However, despite the 
huge successes and achievements recorded by the MDGs, it became 
obvious that the MDGs were coming to expiration by 2015 and the 
achievements were still below expectation. In 2012, member states of 
the UN met again and changed the declaration from Millennium 
Development Goals to Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) with 
poverty eradication still as number one goal.2 
Consequently, since the advent of the New Millennium, just like in other 
developing countries, Nigeria has rolled out different strategies and 
poverty alleviation schemes in her quest for development. Some of 
these schemes include National Development Plans, Indigenisation, 
Structural Adjustment Programme (SAP), Small and Medium 
                                                           1 S. Bell and K. Newitt, Decent Work and Poverty Eradication: Literature Review 
and Two-Country Study, (London: Ergon Associates Limited, 2010), 2. 2“SDGF: Sustainable Development Goals Fund”, Retrieved from 
www.sdgfund.org/mdgs-sdgs, Accessed on March 13, 2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the War against Poverty (WAP)... 
91 
 
Enterprises Development Agency (SMEDAN), National Directorate of 
Employment (NDE), Farm Settlement Scheme (FSS), Operation Feed 
the Nation (OFN), Green Revolution, Better Life Programme (BLP), 
Poverty Eradication Programme (PEP), Farming Economic 
Advancement Programme (FEAP), National Poverty Eradication 
Programme (NAPEP), Subsidy Reinvestment and Empowerment 
Programme (SURE-P), Youth Enterprise with Innovation in Nigeria 
(YOUWIN), N-Power, Trader Money, Backward Integration, 
etcetera.3Unfortunately, these empowerment programmes could not 
curb youth unemployment because, they were lacking in scale and 
scope. Most of these initiatives were theoretical and not youth specific 
but youth parasitic because people have embraced the culture of 
receiving rather than engaging in productive activities. For these 
reasons, these programmes had little impact considering the enormity 
of unemployed graduates and youths in the country which continues to 
go higher.4 
Still in search for solution, one of the schemes through which Nigeria 
has combated poverty in the country is the National Youth Service 
Corps (NYSC). Being that youth unemployment is a major factor 
responsible for high rate of poverty in Nigeria is youth unemployment, 
the NYSC has been charged along with other duties, to empower the 
                                                           3 R. A Bello et al., “Poverty Alleviation Programmes and Economic Development in 
Nigeria: A Comparative Assessment of Asa and Ilorin West Local Government 
Areas of Kwara State, Nigeria”, in African Research Review, Vol. 3 (4), July 2009, 
283-297, and N. C. Ozioko, “The Millennium Development Goal 1 and its 
Implementation in Nsukka and its Environs, 2005-2015: An Appraisal”, An 
Unpublished MA Thesis Submitted to the Department of History and War Studies, 
Nigerian Defence Academy Postgraduate School, Kaduna, September 2020, 2. 4 A. W. Ikaka, Director, NYSC South-East Area Office, “The Imperatives of Skill 
Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development to Graduating Students”, A Paper 
Delivered during the Summit of the Department of Entrepreneurship, Nasarawa 
State University, Keffi, on 5th September, 2019, in NYSC NEWS: A Journal of NYSC 
Directorate Headquarters, (Abuja: NYSC National Directorate Headquarters, 2020), 
122. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                       Ozinna T. Ntukogu 
92 
 
youths of Nigeria so as to alleviate poverty in the country. One of the 
major ways through which the scheme has been empowering the 
youths is through the NYSC War Against Poverty (WAP) Programme. 
This programme is aimed at training serving youth corps members in 
different agricultural entrepreneurial fields so as to prepare them for 
integration into the economy, the labour market and the 
entrepreneurial world. By so doing, the programme also creates 
employment not only for the beneficiaries of the scheme but also, the 
teeming youths that would be employed by the trained agricultural 
entrepreneurs, all aimed at reducing unemployment, poverty and 
hunger in Nigeria in particular. 
While employing both quantitative and qualitative methods of 
historical research, this chapter therefore examines the WAP 
programme with a view to establishing the extent to which the 
programme has succeeded and, or failed in its war against poverty in 
Nigeria. With both primary and secondary data, the chapter finds that 
through this programme, the NYSC has empowered many Nigerian 
youths and has immensely contributed to poverty alleviation in Nigeria 
particularly, and as well, has contributed to the UN MDGs Goals 1 and 3 
and SDGs Goals 1, 2 and 5 in general. However, the chapter argues that 
despite the successes of this programme, there are shortcomings and 
challenges bedevilling the programme and limiting its potentials in the 
fight against poverty in Nigeria. 
 
An Overview of the NYSC War Against Poverty (WAP) Programme 
Established in 1973 by the Federal Government of Nigeria to foster 
national unity, the NYSC deploys graduates of tertiary institutions to 
different parts of the country to participate in a compulsory one-year 
national service. With this, the scheme does not only foster national 
unity, but has been helpful in creating entry level jobs for the Nigerian 
youths especially young graduates. To buttress this, the Director-
General (DG) of NYSC, Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim says thus, 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the War against Poverty (WAP)... 
93 
 
“with over 350,000 graduate youths being mobilised annually, NYSC 
remains the most critical influencer of Nigerian youths as agents of 
unity, peace and development”.5 However, due to increased school 
enrolment and failure of the government in creating policies that would 
favour job creation in the country, millions of graduates have remained 
unemployed several years after graduating from tertiary institutions. In 
fact, a 2013 report reveals that only 10% out of the millions of 
graduates are gainfully employed in their desired place of work.6 Lack 
of employment opportunities and the sense of joblessness make the 
Nigerian youths very frustrated and aggressive, thereby, making them 
vulnerable and susceptible to crimes, violence, banditry, prostitution, 
militancy, terrorism, thuggery, etcetera.7 For this reason, the NYSC has 
established collaborations with different agencies to solve the 
problems of unemployment and poverty. Consequently, in a 
collaboration between the NYSC and MDGs the NYSC/MDGs/WAP 
programme was birthed. 
Initially, when this collaboration started in August, 2006 the NYSC-
MDGs project started with two programmes which were MDGs 
Awareness Creation (MAC) and the Family Life Education (FLE). But 
when the project expanded in scope and curriculum, FLE, transformed 
to Family and Community Life Reorientation (FACOR). The programme 
recruited and trained corps volunteers as Development Knowledge 
Facilitators (DFKs) whose job was to create public awareness on 
government policies and programmes relating to the MDGs/NEEDS and 
Vision 2020 aimed at engendering sustainable development in Nigeria. 
                                                           5 F. Adetunji, “Don Advocates More Funding for NYSC Skill Acquisition 
Programme”, in NYSC NEWS: A Journal of NYSC Directorate Headquarters, (Abuja: 
NYSC National Directorate Headquarters, 2020), 23. 6 S. A. Tijani and M. A. Ayinla, “Effect of the NYSC/MDGs/WAP Agro-Enterprise 
Loan on Beneficiaries Well-Being in South West Nigeria”, in Nigerian Journal of 
Rural Sociology Vol. 5, No. 2, March 2015, 55. 7 A. W. Ikaka, Director, NYSC South-East Area Office, “The Imperatives of Skill 
Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development to Graduating Students”, …, 122. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                       Ozinna T. Ntukogu 
94 
 
With the excellent performance of the MAC and FACOR, the 
NYSC/M/SDGs War Against Poverty Programme was then launched in 
2009.8 
The War Against Poverty (WAP) is an agro-allied initiative of the NYSC 
which targets to prepare corps members for the post service period.9 
The programme kick-started in 2009 and was aimed at addressing the 
MDG Goal 1 which was committed to eradicating extreme poverty and 
hunger. When MDGs were then changed to Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs) in 2015, the programme continued as NYSC/SDGs WAP.10 
The programme is also aimed at empowering women because majority 
of the rural poor are women; and so, empowering women and building 
self-reliance in them would go along a way in ensuring economic family 
survival. This is in line with the SDGs Goal 5 which aims at empowering 
women to achieve gender equality. In the same vein, the programme is 
designed to be a tool for the reduction of incidences of deadly diseases 
such as HIV/AIDS. Since poverty is connected to the prevalence of such 
diseases, the programme is aimed at raising the standard of living of 
youths through employment creation and thereby, reducing the 
incidences of such diseases.11 
                                                           8 “War Against Poverty (WAP)”, in National Youth Service Corps Year Book: 45th 
Anniversary Commemorative Edition, (Abuja: NYSC National Directorate 
Headquarters, 2018), 38. 9 S. Ibrahim, “Life Without White Collar: Imperatives for Vocational and 
Entrepreneurial Education – The NYSC Perspective”, A Paper Presented by 
Brigadier General S Ibrahim, Director-General, National Youth Service Corps at the 
11th Convocation Ceremony of Tai Solarin University of Education, Ijagun, Ogun 
State, November 28, 2019, in NYSC NEWS: A Journal of NYSC Directorate 
Headquarters, (Abuja: NYSC National Directorate Headquarters, 2019), 95. 10 S. Ibrahim, “Life Without White Collar: Imperatives for Vocational and 
Entrepreneurial Education – The NYSC Perspective”, …, 96. 11 “The NYSC/MDGs War Against Poverty (WAP) Programme”, in National Youth 
Service Corps Year Book: 40th Anniversary Commemorative Edition, (Abuja: NYSC 
National Directorate Headquarters, 2013), 56. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the War against Poverty (WAP)... 
95 
 
The programme seeks to empower corps members with agro-
enterprise skills and interest-free loans to create employment, wealth, 
boost agricultural productivity for food security and eradicate extreme 
hunger and poverty. “The goal of the programme is to mobilise and 
develop in the Nigerian youths, the skills for self-reliance, employment 
generation and wealth creation using the vanguard of corps 
entrepreneurs throughout the nooks and crannies of Nigeria.”12. With 
the consistent efforts by government to diversify the economy of 
Nigeria largely dependent on crude oil resources, the NYSC scheme 
embarked on the WAP programme to empower youth corps members 
with agro-allied skills which will translate into not just eradication of 
extreme poverty, but will also eradicate hunger by increasing food 
productivity and ensuring food security, creating wealth and 
employment, and thereby, stemming insecurity in the country.13 This is 
in line with the observation of the Head of Skill Acquisition and 
Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) in Oyo state NYSC Secretariat 
Mrs Atinuke Ojo, who maintained that the current unemployment rate 
has made it very important for youths to acquire vocational skills so 
that they can earn a living without stress. In her address she advised 
corps members to take advantage of the free training provided by the 
NYSC.14 
Agriculture may have been chosen to be the key sector for this 
programme because it is not only the largest employer of labour in 
Nigeria but also, a vital contributor to wealth creation and poverty 
alleviation. Agriculture also constitutes about 40% of the country’s 
                                                           12 “The NYSC/MDGs War Against Poverty (WAP) Programme”, NYSC Year Book 
2013…, 56. 13John Oba, “Empowering Corps Members with Agro-Allied Enterprise”, Blueprint, 
November 30, 2015, Retrieved from https://www.blueprint.ng/empowering-
corps-members-with-agro-allied-enterprise/, Accessed on March 11, 2021. 14 J. Ekeocha, “Corps Members Tasked on Self Discovery through SAED”, in NYSC 
NEWS: A Journal of NYSC Directorate Headquarters, (Abuja: NYSC National 
Directorate Headquarters, 2020), 81. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                       Ozinna T. Ntukogu 
96 
 
Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and has been identified by the Federal 
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (FMARD) as an area 
through which the problem of youth unemployment would be 
addressed in Nigeria. Apart from providing revenue to a large 
percentage of Nigeria’s population, it is the largest non-oil export 
earner in Nigeria.15 So, in order to prepare corps members for self-
reliance in agriculture business, the WAP programme was then 
designed to focus its trainings on the agricultural sector. The WAP 
training was divided into two stages; the first stage was the 
entrepreneurial development training which acquaints the trainee 
corps members with the general issues of business. Here, beneficiaries 
are trained to think and operate as entrepreneurs so as to sustain their 
agro businesses when they successfully establish them. This training 
equips the corps members with the requisite business skills that would 
enable them operate profitably and also transform their businesses 
into bigger enterprises.16 
The second part is the specific agro enterprise (vocational) training. In 
this, corps members are trained on seven agricultural fields viz: 
poultry, banana/plantain sucker multiplication, fishery, animal 
husbandry, snailry, grass-cutter rearing and bee-keeping.17 
Furthermore, the WAP programme is not only aimed at training corps 
members to create wealth through employment for themselves and 
improving food productivity, but also, to employ other members of 
their host communities.18This is why it is stated in the concept plan of 
the WAP Programme that beneficiaries should engage at least five 
                                                           15 S. A. Tijani and M. A. Ayinla, “Effect of the NYSC/MDGs/WAP Agro-Enterprise 
Loan on Beneficiaries Well-Being in South West Nigeria”, …, 55. 16 S. Ibrahim, “Life Without White Collar: Imperatives for Vocational and 
Entrepreneurial Education – The NYSC Perspective”, …, 96. 17John Oba, “Empowering Corps Members with Agro-Allied Enterprise”, Blueprint. 18 S. Ibrahim, “Life Without White Collar: Imperatives for Vocational and 
Entrepreneurial Education – The NYSC Perspective”, …, 96. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the War against Poverty (WAP)... 
97 
 
youths in their enterprise host communities, equip these youths with 
the required skills to reduce extreme poverty and hunger in those host 
communities.19 
More so, it has been a matter of concern that the youths have been 
uninterested in agriculture which has led to increase in crimes across 
the country. This has been due to lack of access to finance and micro-
credit as well as land. Commenting on such challenges of finance, the 
DG of the NYSC, Brig Gen S Ibrahim said that the NYSC has evolved 
various programmes including Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship 
Development (SAED) for Corps members but one of the critical needs 
of the corps entrepreneurs is access to funds to kick-start their 
businesses.20 
In this regard, the NYSC WAP programme has not only been equipping 
the beneficiaries with the requisite skills in agro-allied businesses, but 
has also been offering interest-free and low-interest loans to them to 
start up their respective businesses. For this reason, the programme 
has been financially supported by the Office of the Senior Special 
Assistant to the President on MDGs/ SDGs. The programme has also 
partnered with Small and Medium Enterprise Development Agency 
(SMEDAN) and National Biotechnology Development Agency (NABDA) 
who have brought their technical support to ensure the success of the 
agro-allied enterprises by corps members.21 
This is why the scheme has gone into other collaborations with 
financial institutions like Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and Bank of 
Industry (BOI) to grant soft loans to successful corps members of the 
                                                           19 Former DG NYSC, Brig Gen JB Olawunmi, in John Oba, “Empowering Corps 
Members with Agro-Allied Enterprise”, Blueprint. 20 F. Adetunji, “NYSC Foundation Empowers Corps Entrepreneurs with N4.25m 
Loan”, in NYSC NEWS: A Journal of NYSC Directorate Headquarters, (Abuja: NYSC 
National Directorate Headquarters, 2019), 27. 21 S. Ibrahim, “Life Without White Collar: Imperatives for Vocational and 
Entrepreneurial Education – The NYSC Perspective”, …, 96. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                       Ozinna T. Ntukogu 
98 
 
programme. This led to the launching of the NYSC/BOI Graduate 
Entrepreneurship Fund which was reported to have set aside two 
billion naira in 2015 to finance 1000 business proposals of corps 
members whose capacities have been built in agro-allied businesses.22 
Similarly, the scheme collaborates with the Bank of Agriculture (BOA) 
to finance the business interest of the successful corps members by 
granting loans to them. The categories of loans made available to the 
corps members by the BOA include micro-loans, Small and Medium 
Enterprises (SME) loans and large loans. Some of the provisions of the 
BOA are also very beneficial to the scheme because they need youths 
that have gone through enterprise training which the NYSC WAP 
programme gives to corps members. An example of such provisions is 
their Youth Agric Business Revolution of Nigeria (YARN) which is open 
to youths between the ages of 18-35 years. In this provision, youths can 
access up to one-million-naira loan without collateral; and it can be 
accessed by both individuals and cooperative societies.23 It is also in 
this spirit of collaboration that the current DG NYSC, Brig Gen S Ibrahim 
visited the Industrial Training Fund (ITF) boss, Sir Joseph Ari in Jos, 
Plateau State, who promised to set up a technical committee to 
reinvigorate their partnership on the empowerment of corps members 
for self-employment.24 
Also, the coordinators of entrepreneurial and empowerment 
programmes of the NYSC have not only collaborated with financial 
institutions to fund their programmes, they have also inaugurated 
some financial foundations to help in the financing of NYSC 
empowerment programmes such as the WAP. One of such foundations 
is the NYSC Foundation which was inaugurated in 1999 to provide for 
                                                           22John Oba, “Empowering Corps Members with Agro-Allied Enterprise”, Blueprint. 23John Oba, “Empowering Corps Members with Agro-Allied Enterprise”, Blueprint. 24 Y. Tanimu, “NYSC, ITF Move to Strengthen Partnership”, in NYSC NEWS: A 
Journal of NYSC Directorate Headquarters, (Abuja: NYSC National Directorate 
Headquarters, 2020), 32. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the War against Poverty (WAP)... 
99 
 
the welfare of corps members by offering loans to beneficiaries of 
empowerment programmes as an avenue for transforming their 
creative ideas into wealth.25 
Below are the specific objectives of the NYSC WAP Programme: To 
(i) Sensitise all corps members on entrepreneurial skill 
acquisition for self-reliance, employment generation and 
wealth creation. 
(ii) Train corps members annually in the following areas of 
specialised skills viz: Snailry, Bee Keeping, Fish Farming, 
Animal Husbandry, Grass-cutter Farming, Plantain/Banana 
Sucker Multiplication and Poultry Farming. 
(iii) Carryout the requisite entrepreneurial skill training for the 
corps members. 
(iv) Empower trained corps members with sums ranging from 
N150,000 to N250,000 to establish agro enterprises in 
which they were trained in their host communities. This has 
been increased from N250,000 to N300,000 in 2012. This 
loan is interest free. 
(v) Each empowered corps entrepreneur is to train and mentor 
5 community youths from communities where they 
establish and also use the platforms of their enterprise to 
develop the enterprises’ host communities. 
(vi) Promote women empowerment by ensuring that not less 
than 35% of community youth trainees at all levels are 
women.26 
 
 
 
 
                                                           25 F. Adetunji, “NYSC Foundation Empowers Corps Entrepreneurs with N4.25m 
Loan”, …, 27. 26 “The NYSC/MDGs War Against Poverty (WAP) Programme”, NYSC Year Book 
2013, …, 56-57. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                       Ozinna T. Ntukogu 
100 
 
Achievements and Successes of the NYSC WAP Programme 
Since the inception of the NYSC WAP programme in 2009, the scheme 
has recorded many successes in its activities. Records show that since 
2009, thousands of corps members have been trained under this 
programme and have also accessed the scheme’s loans to start up their 
agro-enterprises.27 Through its trainings in agro-allied business, the 
scheme has also produced outstanding Nigerian youths who have made 
differences at the international and national stages. As disclosed by the 
Acting Secretary of the SDGs in 2015, two of the scheme’s beneficiaries 
were among the 40 young Africans that won the 2015 Mandela African 
Fellowship. Similarly, between 2012 and 2014, six of the scheme’s 
beneficiaries also emerged as innovative Youth Entrepreneurs in the 
Youth Enterprise with Innovation in Nigeria (YOUWIN) Awards.28 
Also, as many as thousands of beneficiaries under this programme have 
established their businesses successfully and have continued to employ 
other youths in the country. Such achievements are what the NYSC boss 
summarised when he re-iterated that, “we have trained thousands of 
corps members and most of them are doing very well and are 
employers of labour and wealth creators today. For you to succeed, you 
must respect the dignity of labour.”29Some outstanding corps members 
who have benefitted and established their enterprises in different parts 
of the country include UkuTrever who established a poultry farm in 
Makurdi, Benue State; Alozie Donald who established his banana and 
plantain sucker plantation in Mbaise, Imo State; Ipinlaye Idowu 
established a fish farm in Akure, Ondo State; Abu Salifu went into 
animal husbandry in Ayingba-Ejule Junction of Kogi State; Ologunro 
Bolanle who served in Kebbi State established her poultry farm in 
                                                           27 John Oba, “Empowering Corps Members with Agro-Allied Enterprise” Blueprint. 28 John Oba, “Empowering Corps Members with Agro-Allied Enterprise” Blueprint. 29 F. Adetunji, “NYSC DG Hails FG on Youth Empowerment”, in NYSC NEWS: A 
Journal of NYSC Directorate Headquarters, (Abuja: NYSC National Directorate 
Headquarters), OCNODE542020, 90. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the War against Poverty (WAP)... 
101 
 
Brinin Kebbi of Kebbi State; Haruna Fatawa established his poultry 
farm in Bauchi; Christopher Esuga established his fish farm in Lafia, 
Nasarawa State, etcetera.30 
With such achievements, there is no doubt that the NYSC WAP 
programme has also brought about improved standard of living of 
individuals because it ensures that people meet their basic needs.31 
This is in agreement with the 2019 study in Oyo State which states that 
such agro-allied programmes have improved the standard of living of 
graduate youths and have increased their self-esteem and broadened 
their thinking process.32 Having contributed immensely to the 
eradication of extreme poverty and hunger in Nigeria, the NYSC DG, 
Brig Gen S Ibrahim said that the WAP programme has played a leading 
role in realising the Sustainable Development Goals 1 and 2 in 
Nigeria.33 
More so, the need to practise the agro-allied skill trainings received by 
beneficiaries of the NYSC WAP programme facilitated the 
establishment of many NYSC farms in different parts of the country. 
These farms not only serve as training ground for corps members who 
have acquired agro-allied skills in programmes such as the WAP, but 
also serve as source of revenue generation to the NYSC scheme. This 
development has informed the establishment of integrated farm 
settlements in the six geopolitical zones of Nigeria by the NYSC. One of 
such farms is located in Dungulbi Village of Bauchi State for the North-
                                                           30 “The NYSC/MDGs War Against Poverty (WAP) Programme”, NYSC Year Book 
2013, …, 61-66. 31 A. W. Ikaka, Director, NYSC South-East Area Office, “The Imperatives of Skill 
Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development to Graduating Students”, …, 124 -
125 32 O. J Adelekunet al, “Attitude of Graduate Youths Towards Agro-Allied Skill 
Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development Programme in Oyo State”, in 
Journal of Agricultural Extension, Vol. 23 (1), January 2019, 19, Retrieved from 
http://dx.doi.org/10.4314/jae.V23i1.2, Accessed on March 4, 2021.  33 F. Adetunji, “NYSC DG Hails FG on Youth Empowerment”, …, 90. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                       Ozinna T. Ntukogu 
102 
 
East.34 Others have been established in Kebbi for the North-West; 
Leleyi, Kwali for the Federal Capital Territory Abuja (FCT); Ezillo, 
Ebonyi State for the South-East, Iseyin, Oyo State for the South-West 
and Obubra, Cross River State for the South-South.35 These farms have 
not only served in feeding corps members during orientation course, 
they have as well trained youths of their host communities and have 
contributed immensely to the national economy in the quest to achieve 
food sufficiency and security in Nigeria.36 
Conversely, it is most practicable that most of the agro-allied 
enterprises are located in semi-urban and rural areas due to 
availability of land, space and labour for the enterprise; so, the NYSC 
WAP programme has succeeded in reducing the rate of rural to urban 
migration or drift which has constituted a social problem in the country 
over the years. This is because, the programme reduces the pool of 
unemployed youths who would find themselves trekking and looking 
for unavailable jobs in the cities by actively and gainfully engaging 
these youths in the semi-urban and rural areas.37 In consequence, the 
programme has then attracted some infrastructural development such 
as security, electricity, water and accessible roads to some of these 
rural areas where such agro ventures are located. This is why Professor 
Ibe maintains that programmes such as this serve as vantage 
springboard which creates conveyor belt system that promotes a 
successful social cohesion with the rural communities and the nation at 
                                                           34 F. Adetunji, “DG Inspects NYSC Farm in Bauchi”, in NYSC NEWS: A Journal of 
NYSC Directorate Headquarters, (Abuja: NYSC National Directorate Headquarters, 
2019), 76. 35 E. Obeni, “NYSC at 47: The Unique Trajectory of Africa’s Leading Light in Youth 
Mobilisation”, in NYSC NEWS: A Journal of NYSC Directorate Headquarters, (Abuja: 
NYSC National Directorate Headquarters, 2020), 116. 36 E. Obeni, “NYSC at 47: The Unique Trajectory of Africa’s Leading Light in Youth 
Mobilisation”, …, 116. 37 “The NYSC/MDGs War Against Poverty (WAP) Programme”, NYSC Year Book 
2013, …, 59. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the War against Poverty (WAP)... 
103 
 
large.38 In that regard, the NYSC DG, Brig Gen S Ibrahim said that, not 
only has this programme improved the living standard of the 
beneficiary corps members, but has also improved the living standard 
of the host communities where the enterprises are located.39 
The above success has been demonstrated in some states like Ogun 
State where in the spirit of WAP, a SAED Village has been established. 
The SAED Village is a large component of farms constructed to 
accommodate plantain and cassava plantations, food and cash crops, 
poultry, fish farms, and beds for vegetable and other leguminous crops. 
This project has attracted some amenities and even security to this 
area. In a bid to nurture and sustain the farms, the NYSC State 
Coordinator, Dr (Mrs) B. A. Faniyi constructed a running water 
borehole and connected a machine-driven irrigator with hoses to 
supply water to the farms and improve the humidity of the area. The 
fish farm has five standard ponds with the potential of churning out 
fish and fingerlings in commercial quantities. Same is the case with the 
poultry section and other segments of the farm. On the aspect of 
security, the location of the farm is directly behind the Orientation 
Camp of Ogun State. This area was initially a dense forest which had 
constituted a security threat to the corps members and the NYSC staff 
in the camp. Hence, the clearing of the hitherto thick forest with 
bulldozers to establish this farm and the erection of a heavy barbed 
wire fence around the farm brought back a sense of security within the 
Ogun NYSC Camp.40 If the farms continue to grow, it is obvious that 
more benefits and successes will be recorded in the area. In fact, one 
                                                           38 F. Adetunji, “Don Advocates More Funding for NYSC Skill Acquisition 
Programme”, …, 23. 39 F. Adetunji, “NYSC DG Hails FG on Youth Empowerment”, in NYSC NEWS: A 
Journal of NYSC Directorate Headquarters, (Abuja: NYSC National Directorate 
Headquarters), OCNODE542020, 90. 40  E. Emmanuel, “SAED Village as a Worthy Enterprise for Wealthy Creation”, 
OgunKopa, 2019 Batch B End of Service Year Magazine, (A Publication of NYSC 
Ogun State), May 2020, 22. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                       Ozinna T. Ntukogu 
104 
 
can only imagine the level of development that such an establishment 
can bring to the Sagamu community of Ogun State and its environs. 
Again, a key aspect of the successes recorded by the NYSC WAP 
programme is on the part of revenue generation for beneficiary 
individual corps members and their host states. WAP programme has 
created wealth, raised and strengthened national economy, increased 
the nation’s GDP and per capita income and boosted foreign reserve 
through foreign exports of agricultural products.41 Engr. Abdullahi Sule, 
Governor of Nasarawa State had commended the DG NYSC for creating 
revenue generating platforms for individuals and states through 
agricultural programmes such as WAP and the establishment of NYSC 
agricultural farm settlements in different parts of the country. The 
governor explained that such agricultural activities are beneficial to his 
State especially now that his State has been named among the three 
pilot states for the implementation of the National Livestock 
Transformation Plan.42 
Subsequently, with more collaborations with agriculture-related 
agencies on the way, more successes are in view for the NYSC WAP 
programme. Recently, there was a move by the NYSC to partner with 
the National Centre for Agricultural Mechanization (NCAM). As a 
government parastatal, the centre is charged with the duty of 
advancing the course of agriculture in Nigeria through human capacity 
building in agriculture and the fabrication of farming machines and 
equipment. The centre has agreed to provide the NYSC with relevant 
                                                           41 A. W. Ikaka, Director, NYSC South-East Area Office, “The Imperatives of Skill 
Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development to Graduating Students”, …, 125. 42 Y. Tanimu, “Nasarawa to Partner NYSC on Agriculture”, in NYSC NEWS: A Journal 
of NYSC Directorate Headquarters, (Abuja: NYSC National Directorate 
Headquarters, 2020), 59. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the War against Poverty (WAP)... 
105 
 
farming equipment and requisite training of both the beneficiary corps 
members and NYSC farm managers in the field of agriculture.43 
The National Agricultural Land Development Authority (NALDA) has 
also stated that it is ready to collaborate with the NYSC to diversify 
national economy and ensure food sufficiency. This, the agency said, it 
would do through training the corps members on the modernised 
techniques of farming which has good value-chain. The agency said that 
it had designed a programme called “Back to Farm” which will not only 
train corps members in a conducive environment with good incentives, 
but will also provide funds for their businesses through loans. The 
Executive Secretary of the agency said that the NYSC Farms across the 
country will be used as training grounds for the trainee corps 
members.44 NALDA also revealed another value-chain programme 
called the National Young Farmers’ Scheme. This programme is 
designed by the agency to expose corps members to modern 
agricultural practices including land preparation, planting, harvesting, 
marketing and agro-engineering so as to reduce unemployment among 
youths, achieve national food security and diversify the economy of 
Nigeria.45 
A similar partnership is also taking place between the NYSC and the 
Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute (ARMTI). Being 
an institute established to boost agricultural production and guarantee 
food security in Nigeria, the institute has also accepted to train corps 
members and NYSC agriculture officers and farm managers in 
                                                           43 L. Christopher, “National Agric Centre set to Empower Corps Members”, in NYSC 
NEWS: A Journal of NYSC Directorate Headquarters, (Abuja: NYSC National 
Directorate Headquarters), OCNODE542020, 78. 44  F Adetunji, “NALDA to Train Corps Members on Mechanized Farming”, in NYSC 
NEWS: A Journal of NYSC Directorate Headquarters, (Abuja: NYSC National 
Directorate Headquarters), OCNODE542020, 77. 45 F. Adetunji, “NYSC to Partner NALDA on Agriculture”, in NYSC NEWS: A Journal 
of NYSC Directorate Headquarters, (Abuja: NYSC National Directorate 
Headquarters), OCNODE542020, 52. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                       Ozinna T. Ntukogu 
106 
 
contemporary best practices in the sphere of agriculture, using the 
NYSC farms across the country as demonstration farms for practical 
trainings. This will support the Federal Government’s policy of self-
sustainability and food security in Nigeria.46 The DG NYSC, Brig Gen S 
Ibrahim has also called for a deepened collaboration between the NYSC 
and the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA) which the 
institute sees as a step in the right direction that will strengthen food 
security in Nigeria.47Again, NYSC has gone into partnership with 
National Cereal Research Institute (NCRI) so as to train more corps 
members in modern farming and incorporate them in the customised 
in-house and outside-the-station training for good agricultural 
practices that will boost agricultural production and enhance the NYSC 
revenue drive.48 
With such collaborations, the NYSC has through WAP, sponsored seven 
(7) corps entrepreneurs to attend the Advanced Entrepreneurial 
Training at Barry University in Miami, Florida, United States of America 
(USA). Loans ranging between 1.8 million and 3 million naira were 
given to the corps entrepreneurs after the training by the National 
Economic Reconstruction Funds to expand their enterprises and also 
employ more community members.49 From there, the seven corps 
members established and expanded their enterprises and also 
empowered many of their host communities’ youths. The seven corps 
members and their NYSC numbers are as follows: Jibrin Suleiman 
                                                           46 L. Christopher, “NYSC to Collaborate with ARMIT on Food Security”, in NYSC 
NEWS: A Journal of NYSC Directorate Headquarters, (Abuja: NYSC National 
Directorate Headquarters), OCNODE542020, 75. 47  “Ibrahim Calls for Strengthening of NYSC/IITA Partnership”, in NYSC NEWS: A 
Journal of NYSC Directorate Headquarters, (Abuja: NYSC National Directorate 
Headquarters), OCNODE542020, 78.  48 F. Adetunji, “NYSC Rejigs Partnership with NCRI on Agric Training”, in NYSC 
NEWS: A Journal of NYSC Directorate Headquarters, (Abuja: NYSC National 
Directorate Headquarters), OCNODE542020, 79. 49 “War Against Poverty (WAP)”, NYSC Year Book 2018, …, 38. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the War against Poverty (WAP)... 
107 
 
Ahmed (KN/09C/033), Attahir Zayyanu Tanko (ANS/09C0025), 
Abubakar Enupe (GM/09C/594), Ikeagwuonu Chinwendu 
(RV/09C/0970), Akanmu Folashade (NG/09B/1451), Ademokun 
Adesanmi (OY/09A/0233), and Fagbohungbe Michael 
(ANS/09A/0726).50 
In the same vein,, there are other corps members who have made their 
mark in the programme by benefitting from the WAP programme and 
empowering other citizens of Nigeria. Gunn Ewhobor who ventured 
into grass-cutter farming, poultry and other agro-allied enterprises. He 
empowered 45 youths in his community and due to his exploits and 
growing influence, he was elected the General Secretary of Nigeria 
Poultry Farmers’ Association, Bayelsa State Chapter and was conferred 
with the Bayelsa State NEPAD Award. Ogunmakinde Gbenga Akin who 
served in Abuja emerged as the best youth entrepreneur in North 
Central geo-political zone in the Ministry of Finance organised YouWin 
exercise. Mary Ofojetu went into snailry in Erin-Ile community of 
Kwara State. She was shortly contracted as a facilitator by FADAMA III 
due to her impressive activities. Her progress motivated the traditional 
ruler of the community to set up a snailry farm where some schools 
and some retired members of the community were trained in snailry 
with the aim of setting up their own enterprises.  
Another beneficiary corps member, Aborisade Adetola who went into 
snailry in Rivers State where he served also mentored and trained 
many community members on snail farming. He also launched a Non-
Governmental Organisation (NGO) called “Child and Green Foundation” 
through which he reached out and trained physically challenged 
people, orphans and widows in skill acquisition. He later relocated his 
enterprise to Osogbo in Osun State after his service year. Similarly, 
Edunjobi Sunday who served in Anambra State also went into snailry. 
                                                           50 “The NYSC/MDGs War Against Poverty (WAP) Programme”, NYSC Year Book 
2013, …, 60. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                       Ozinna T. Ntukogu 
108 
 
In Abagana, located in Njikoka LGA of Anambra State, he trained 120 
Senior Secondary 3 (SS3) students and over 200 youths in this 
enterprise but later relocated his own business venture to Ibadan in 
Oyo State of Nigeria.51 
There are many other success stories that can be cited about NYSC 
WAP programme, but for the want of space, afore discussed cases 
suffice. Absolutely, it is established that the programme has recorded 
some impressive achievements since its inception in 2009, but not 
without some shortcomings.  
 
Shortcomings and Challenges of the NYSC WAP Programme 
There are many shortcomings associated with the implementation of 
the WAP programme in Nigeria. These challenges have formed very 
serious limitations to the effectiveness of the WAP programme in 
Nigeria.  
The very first challenge confronting the WAP programme is the general 
apathy of the youths to go into agriculture. This could be because of its 
labour intensive nature if practised with crude implements; or its 
capital intensive nature if it is mechanised. Whatever the reason may 
be, it has gone a long way in adversely affecting the idea of WAP 
programme because, the youth come out feeling uninterested in 
anything agriculture. Some even see it as a dirty job and hence, any gist 
about it does not interest them. Its consequence on the participation of 
youths in the WAP programme is evident because, as it is said that 
personal interest motivates, so, the youths must first of all, have 
passion for the enterprise before they can enrol. As A. W Ikaka says, 
this will be solved by re-orientation to emphasise on such skills so that 
                                                           51 “The NYSC/MDGs War Against Poverty (WAP) Programme”, NYSC Year Book 
2013, …, 60-61. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the War against Poverty (WAP)... 
109 
 
youths can contribute to the growth and development of the 
economy.52 
A factor that has contributed to this problem of apathy among youths is 
the non-teaching of agriculture-related courses in most faculties of our 
tertiary institutions except in agriculture related faculties/institutions. 
What teaching agriculture-related courses in most faculties would have 
achieved is to whet the interest of Nigerian youths to go into 
agriculture after school. Some of the corps members who get 
introduced to the agro-allied programmes end up abandoning it due to 
their lack of knowledge in the field of agriculture; and so, the training 
looks so complex to them and ends up boring and scaring them away 
into other popular fields of SAED like baking, tailoring, bead-making, 
make-up, leather works, etcetera, which are relatively simpler and 
easier to grasp in outlook. Such a reason was given by some ex corps 
members who complained that they wanted to acquire the agro-allied 
training during the SAED sessions in their orientation camps, but the 
complexity of the trainings discouraged them from continuing.53 What 
can be done is not just to include mandatory entrepreneurship 
education in the curricular of tertiary institutions as the DG NYSC Brig 
Gen S Ibrahim said, but there is need to also incorporate compulsory 
agricultural education in curricular of all disciplines in tertiary 
institutions to prepare the youths for the task ahead during their NYSC 
                                                           52 A. W. Ikaka, Director, NYSC South-East Area Office, “The Imperatives of Skill 
Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development to Graduating Students”, …, 125.  53Phone Interviews with Ilesanmi Faith, 26+, Postgraduate Student, (served in the 
South-West, Osun, 2017), IfeomaOkafor, 30+, Medical Practitioner, (Served in the 
South-West, Ekiti, 2018), ChizikoNtukogu, 32+, Post Graduate Student, (Served in 
the South-East, Imo, 2017), Mary Ezeigwe, 28+, Medical Practitioner, (Served in 
the North-West, Sokoto, 2019), Mary Chima, 27+, Lecturer, (Served in the North 
Central, Benue, 2018) and Chukwurah Bartholomew, 35+, Manager, (Served in the 
South-South, Cross River, 2012). 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                       Ozinna T. Ntukogu 
110 
 
days and after their service year.54This, the DG said would ensure early 
exposure of youths to embrace self-employment and wealth creation in 
agriculture instead of hoping to get a white-collar job after school.55 
Closely related to the issue of curriculum is inadequate training 
framework curriculum and duration in the WAP programme. 
Complaints abound that the problem with our tertiary institutions is 
that the curriculum is too bookish, emphasising more theories than 
practical; meanwhile, we have failed to realise that there is need to 
embrace vocational and technical education like that offered by the 
WAP. But just as Ikaka rightly enthused, “unskilled manpower and 
theories cannot take us to the moon”.56 This is the same problem 
encountered in the training framework of the WAP programme where 
more of theories are done at the expense of practical, making the 
training complex, boring, uninteresting and unattractive to corps 
members. In addition to that, the duration of the training only lasts for 
10 days.57 It will only be a matter of pretence if one claims not to know 
that such a short time is not enough to give training to a prospective 
agro-entrepreneur who is expected to establish a successful money 
making venture in agriculture. 
Another heinous challenge to the NYSC WAP programme is lack of 
sensitisation campaigns, inadequate advertisement and poor 
circulation of information by the programme managers. According to 
2013 NYSC Year Book, it is stated that NYSC/M/SDG project conducts a 
                                                           54 F. Adetunji, “Don Advocates More Funding for NYSC Skill Acquisition 
Programme”, …, 23. 55 F. Adetunji, “General Ibrahim Advocates Skill Acquisition Training in Schools”, in 
NYSC NEWS: A Journal of NYSC Directorate Headquarters, (Abuja: NYSC National 
Directorate Headquarters), OCNODE542020, 77.  56 A. W. Ikaka, Director, NYSC South-East Area Office, “The Imperatives of Skill 
Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development to Graduating Students”, …, 125. 57Awajis, “NYSC Free Loan: What You Need to Know (NYSC WAP Foundation)”, 
February 27, 2021, Retrieved from https://awajis.com/nysc-free-loan/, Accessed 
on March 13, 2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the War against Poverty (WAP)... 
111 
 
sensitisation programme during orientation courses held in all the 
NYSC camps across Nigeria,   to disseminate relevant information to 
corps members and then provide answers to all the questions that may 
arise from corps members about the WAP programme. The document 
also states that after the seminar, WAP schedule officers in the 
States/FCT are introduced to corps members for follow-ups after the 
camp orientation course.58 
However, it is indeed very surprising that the WAP programme which 
started earlier before the SAED programme has lesser popularity than 
the SAED programme among corps members. In fact, many ex-corps 
members have expressed little or no knowledge about the NYSC WAP 
programme; they kept referring to the popular SAED programme.59 
This lack of popularity may have been caused by the wide 
advertisement of the SAED programme during orientation camp 
period; a development that has stolen the moment from the WAP 
programme. Another possible cause of this lack of popularity of WAP 
programme is the incorporation of agro-allied sector in the SAED 
programme too. This has blurred the line between activities meant for 
the WAP programme and those meant for the SAED programme; and 
since corps members are more aware of the SAED programme, only the 
rightly informed corps members have had the privilege of knowing 
about the WAP programme. However, the situation of things suggest 
that only little has been done and is currently being done by the WAP 
programme organisers to widely sell the WAP programme to the public 
                                                           58 “The NYSC/MDGs War Against Poverty (WAP) Programme”, NYSC Year Book 
2013, …, 57. 59Oral Interviews with JamiuDanga, 29+, Lecturer, Interviewed in Kaduna, March 2, 
2021, Dr Lawrence Udeagbala, 40+, Lecturer, Interviewed in Kaduna,February 25, 
2021, Mohammed Murtala, Lecturer, 29+, Interviewed in Kaduna, March 4, 2021, 
AdenijiOlawale, 29+, Software Developer, Interviewed in Kaduna, February 21, 
2021,Phone Interview with OleredeSikiru, 30+, Private Sector Employee, March 
18, 2021, and Phone Interview with Nancy Ozioko, 29+, Private Sector Employee, 
March 12, 2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                       Ozinna T. Ntukogu 
112 
 
and seek for massive enrolment of corps members on the programme 
during the orientation camp sessions. A direct consequence of this 
development is the breeding of lack of interest among corps members 
who could have benefitted from the programme and from there, 
empower more youths and develop the nation further. 
Lack of Funds has also constituted another major challenge facing the 
programme. Funding has been found to be a major motivating factor 
for entrepreneurs. As proven by a research survey, good funding goes a 
long way in motivating more corps members to participate in 
entrepreneurial programmes such as WAP.60Apart from the corps 
members who have regretted poor loan sums as a major challenge, 
some farm managers of the NYSC farms which have served as training 
grounds for the WAP programme, have also complained about lack of 
enough funds to forge ahead. Mallam Zailani Garba who was in charge 
of the Bauchi NYSC farms complained that the farm needed funding to 
purchase delivery vehicles and mechanised equipment for the farms so 
as to boost operations and increase productivity.61 
Speaking on the issue of funds during a lecture in NYSC Stakeholders’ 
meeting at the Scheme’s Directorate Headquarters in Abuja, Professor 
C. Ibe had identified that corps members are the most vibrant, 
resourceful, educated and knowledgeable group of youths. He also 
argued that lack of funds has constituted barriers to starting up agro-
businesses. He advocated that such barriers must be removed by 
mobilising more resources for the youths through stakeholders’ 
support, so as to allow youths to initiate ideas that can boost their 
innate abilities in agro-businesses.62 To address this challenge of fund, 
the DG NYSC, Brig Gen S Ibrahim announced the establishment of a 
                                                           60 O. J Adelekunet al, “Attitude of Graduate Youths Towards Agro-Allied Skill 
Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development Programme in Oyo State”, …, 19. 61 F. Adetunji, “DG Inspects NYSC Farm in Bauchi…”, p. 76. 62 F. Adetunji, “Don Advocates More Funding for NYSC Skill Acquisition 
Programme”, …, 22. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the War against Poverty (WAP)... 
113 
 
seventy-five billion naira Nigerian Youth Investment Fund (NYIF), the 
Presidential Youth Empowerment Scheme (P-YES), and the National 
Young Farmers’ Scheme (NYFS) as additions to the NYSC’s funding 
Schemes resulting from collaborations with other agencies to solve the 
problem of insufficiency of funds.63 Hopefully, this may end up solving 
the pressing problem of funds for the progress the programme. 
Subsequently, even the loans offered by the WAP programme and other 
financial institutions collaborating with the scheme to finance the 
business interest of the successful corps members are most times, far 
from satisfying the business needs of the youths.64 
Also, the loans given by the collaborating bodies require rigorous 
processes for them to be accessed. The BOA loan for instance, can only 
be accessed without collateral if it is below 250,000 naira, thas made 
the terms a bit rigid and the process quite rigorous such that in 2015, 
Mrs Adesua Kagho who was representing the bank’s DG, said: “Because 
we know that the risk is high on this loan and there are no collaterals, 
because it is not just giving out forms that matters or having ideas, 
there are a lot of works involved in making the project succeed.” It is 
also important to state that this particular loan offered by the BOA is 
not interest free but varies between single digit interest rates and 12%. 
Corps members applying for this loan are also expected to present very 
strong guarantors.65 
Relating to the issue of the loans of the NYSC WAP programme is the 
diversion of the funds meant for the programme to other businesses. 
This has continued to stifle the successes of the programme as such 
mostly end up lavishing the funds on other non-agro-related 
businesses. In Tijani’s and Ayinla’s research, it was found that even 
                                                           63 F. Adetunji, “NYSC DG Hails FG on Youth Empowerment”, …, 90. 64 S. A. Tijani and M. A. Ayinla, “Effect of the NYSC/MDGs/WAP Agro-Enterprise 
Loan on Beneficiaries Well-Being in South West Nigeria”, …, 58. 65John Oba, “Empowering Corps Members with Agro-Allied Enterprise”, Blueprint. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                       Ozinna T. Ntukogu 
114 
 
though majority of the corps members went into agro-businesses with 
the loans, some of the beneficiaries of the loans diverted the funds into 
other businesses that are not agro-based. Such actions deprive 
beneficiaries who would have invested the loan in agriculture from 
getting the loan.66This problem is caused by lack of monitoring and 
supervision among the WAP officials who are supposed to keep tabs 
with the activities of the beneficiaries.67 Speaking on this problem in an 
interview with NYSC Director, Press and Public Relations, Mrs Adeyemi 
Adenike, the NYSC DG, Brig Gen S Ibrahim has said the scheme would 
tackle the problem by instituting a better monitoring mechanism to 
monitor the beneficiaries of the loans offered by the financial 
institutions.68 He also said in another interview with Economic 
Confidential, that monitoring and knowing how loans are invested and 
managed is very crucial to the sustenance of the system because the 
loans are revolving loans.69 
Furthermore, lack of accurate statistics is also another major challenge 
confronting the progress of the WAP programme since they give a 
summary of what have been done and what needs to be done for 
improvement.  
Finally, instability and insecurity in the country have posed serious 
challenges in all spheres of the country. It would amount to 
overstressing the obvious to state that, NYSC WAP programme has not 
                                                           66 S. A. Tijani and M. A. Ayinla, “Effect of the NYSC/MDGs/WAP Agro-Enterprise 
Loan on Beneficiaries Well-Being in South West Nigeria”, …, 58. 67Awajis, “NYSC Free Loan: What You Need to Know (NYSC WAP Foundation)”, and 
S. A. Tijani and M. A. Ayinla, “Effect of the NYSC/MDGs/WAP Agro-Enterprise Loan 
on Beneficiaries Well-Being in South West Nigeria”, …, 58. 68 “I Want to Bequeath a Technology driven NYSC”, An Interview with Brigadier 
General S Ibrahim on the 10th of May 2020, in NYSC NEWS: A Journal of NYSC 
Directorate Headquarters, (Abuja: NYSC National Directorate Headquarters), 2020, 
70. 69 “NYSC: Rebranding for Revenue Generation, Youth Empowerment – Brig 
Shuaibu, DG”, Economic Confidential, Vol 13, No. 154, July 2020, 17. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the War against Poverty (WAP)... 
115 
 
been left out in this issue. The fear of the unknown has discouraged a 
lot of Nigerian youths from going into entrepreneurship in Nigeria. It 
has not been quickly forgotten that many Nigerians lost their property 
and enterprises in the crisis of the Niger Delta militancy, the Boko 
Haram insurgency in the North-East of Nigeria, the many ethno-
religious crisis that have bedevilled the country, banditry, kidnapping, 
armed robbery and other heinous crimes that have rocked the country. 
Considering all these hiccups, most youths have been discouraged from 
enrolling for the WAP programme, establishing a business venture 
amidst the unstable and insecure situation the country finds itself in.  
 
Conclusion 
The NYSC WAP programme is an MSDGs initiative which, in line with 
the MDGs goals 1 and 3 and SDGs Goals 1, 2 and 5, seeks to eradicate 
extreme poverty and hunger and empower women through agriculture. 
Since the commencement of the WAP programme in 2009, the 
programme has recorded considerable successes in achieving its goals 
and objectives by empowering many corps members in agro-allied 
businesses. These Corps members have in turn, empowered many 
youths in different communities. 
Funding which has been identified as one of the biggest challenges of 
the programme can also be tackled by not only more collaborations 
with corporate bodies but also, by securing a legislation that will 
establish a trust fund like Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFUND) 
where a certain percentage of the profit made by these corporate 
bodies as well as federal, state and local governments are channelled 
into the funding of such empowerment programmes of the NYSC such 
as WAP. There should be an establishment of a strong data base for 
information and a robust monitoring system to keep all WAP 
beneficiaries in check. Despite these challenges, there is no doubt that 
the dearth of famers in this present generation portends a serious 
danger for the future of our nation; but with the yearly creation of 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                       Ozinna T. Ntukogu 
116 
 
many new generation farmers with focus and support by the WAP 
programme, the food security and the overall development of Nigeria 
may not have an entirely bleak future. There is no gain saying that the , 
WAP programme has been successful as an empowerment programme. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the War against Poverty (WAP)... 
117 
 
Bibliography 
 
SDGF: Sustainable Development Goals Fund”, Retrieved from 
www.sdgfund.org/mdgs-sdgs, Accessed on March 13, 2021. 
African Research Review, Vol. 3 (4), July 2009. 
Awajis, “NYSC Free Loan: What You Need to Know (NYSC WAP 
Foundation)”, February 27, 2021, Retrieved from 
https://awajis.com/nysc-free-loan/, Accessed on March 13, 
2021. 
Bell, S., and Newitt, K., Decent Work and Poverty Eradication: Literature 
Review and Two-Country Study, (London: Ergon Associates 
Limited, 2010). 
Blueprint, November 30, 2015, Retrieved from 
https://www.blueprint.ng/empowering-corps-members-with-
agro-allied-enterprise/, Accessed on March 11, 2021. 
Economic Confidential, Vol 13, No. 154, July 2020. 
Hboiacademy-NYSC, “How to Apply for NYSC Loan through NYSC 
WAP/YIEDP”, Retrieved from https://hboiacademy.com/how-
to-apply-for-nysc-loan-through-nysc-wap-
yiedp/#Requirements_for_Getting_the_NYSC_WAP_LOAN, 
Accessed on March 15, 2021. 
Journal of Agricultural Extension, Vol. 23 (1), January 2019, Retrieved 
from http://dx.doi.org/10.4314/jae.V23i1.2, Accessed on March 
4, 2021. 
National Youth Service Corps Year Book: 40th Anniversary 
Commemorative Edition, (Abuja: NYSC National Directorate 
Headquarters, 2013). 
National Youth Service Corps Year Book: 45th Anniversary 
Commemorative Edition, (Abuja: NYSC National Directorate 
Headquarters, 2018). 
Nigerian Journal of Rural Sociology Vol. 5, No. 2, March 2015. 
NYSC NEWS: A Journal of NYSC Directorate Headquarters, (Abuja: NYSC 
National Directorate Headquarters, 2020). 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                       Ozinna T. Ntukogu 
118 
 
NYSC NEWS: A Journal of NYSC Directorate Headquarters, (Abuja: NYSC 
National Directorate Headquarters, 2019). 
NYSC NEWS: A Journal of NYSC Directorate Headquarters, (Abuja: NYSC 
National Directorate Headquarters), OCNODE542020. 
OgunKopa, 2019 Batch B End of Service Year Magazine, (A Publication 
of NYSC Ogun State), May 2020. 
Oral Interviews with Jamiu Danga, 29+, Lecturer, Interviewed in 
Kaduna, March 2, 2021, Dr Lawrence Udeagbala, 40+, Lecturer, 
Interviewed in Kaduna, February 25, 2021, Mohammed 
Murtala, Lecturer, 29+, Interviewed in Kaduna, March 4, 2021, 
Adeniji Olawale, 29+, Software Developer, Interviewed in 
Kaduna, February 21, 2021, Phone Interview with Olerede 
Sikiru, 30+, Private Sector Employee, March 18, 2021, and 
Phone Interview with Nancy Ozioko, 29+, Private Sector 
Employee, March 12, 2021 
Osun Kopa Batch ‘C’ Magazine Photo Album, Osogbo: NYSC Secretariat, 
2019. 
Ozioko, N. C., “The Millennium Development Goal 1 and its 
Implementation in Nsukka and its Environs, 2005-2015: An 
Appraisal”, An Unpublished MA Thesis Submitted to the 
Department of History and War Studies, Nigerian Defence 
Academy Postgraduate School, Kaduna, September 2020. 
Phone Interviews with Ilesanmi Faith, 26+, Postgraduate Student, 
(served in the South-West, Osun, 2017), Ifeoma Okafor, 30+, 
Medical Practitioner, (Served in the South-West, Ekiti, 2018), 
Chiziko Ntukogu, 32+, Post Graduate Student, (Served in the 
South-East, Imo, 2017), Mary Ezeigwe, 28+, Medical 
Practitioner, (Served in the North-West, Sokoto, 2019), Mary 
Chima, 27+, Lecturer, (Served in the North Central, Benue, 
2018) and Chukwurah Bartholomew, 35+, Manager, (Served in 
the South-South, Cross River, 2012). 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the War against Poverty (WAP)... 
119 
 
The Special Duties Department (Compilers), Selected Speeches and 
Strides of the 18th NYSC Director-General, Brig Gen S Ibrahim, 
(Abuja: NYSC National Directorate Headquarters, 2020). 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                     H. Sirajo and Moh’d L. Murtala 
 120 
  
 66 66    
    Loans and Credit Facilities for Socio-Economic 
Development: An Overview of the CBN Youth 
Entrepreneurship Development Program (YEDP) and 
Boi Graduate Entrepreneurship Fund (GEF) in 
Partnership with NYSC 
 
 
HaliruSirajo 
and 
Mohammed Liman Murtala 
 
 
Introduction 
Youths are considered crucial, if not the backbone of national economic 
prosperity and growth.  The enormous potentials in the energy of 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Loans and Credit Facilities for Socio-Economic Development: 
121 
  
youths, if properly harnessed and utilized by the government through 
sustainable empowerments could lead to meaningful economic 
advancement. This can in turn reduces significantly the teeming 
population of unemployed youths which has been a huge contributing 
factor to  the stagnation of economic advancement of most developing 
nations. In Nigeria, unemployment is one of the major constraints of 
youth’s positive contribution to national development. The National 
Youth Service Corps (NYSC), through the Skill Acquisition and 
Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) program, has attracted various 
organizations at both national and international levels, the Private 
Sector, and Donor Agencies to partner in its drive for a robust youth 
entrepreneurship development. Some of these partners include the 
Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), the Bank of Industry (BOI),United 
Nation Institute for Training and Research (UNITAR), Small and 
Medium Enterprises Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN), 
National Directorate of Employment (NDE), Bank of Agriculture (BOA), 
International Labour Organisation (ILO), Credit Direct Ltd, and many 
Commercials Banks and other credit facility institutions. The Scheme’s 
youth empowerment programs, targeting graduates with robust 
business ideas require fund partnership. This is to enhance the spread 
of small and medium enterprises (SMEs), improving youth’s access to 
finance, as well as reducing the burden of unemployment on the 
Federal Government, thereby facilitating the growth of the economy. 
This paper, therefore, is an assessment of the role of the Youth 
Entrepreneurship Development Program (YEDP) by the CBN, and 
NYSC-BOI Graduates Entrepreneurship Fund (GEF)in partnership with 
NYSC as a catalyst in mitigating unemployment among Nigerian youths. 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                     H. Sirajo and Moh’d L. Murtala 
 122 
  
Conceptual Clarification 
Youth Entrepreneurship Development Program (YEDP). This is an 
initiative of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) as part of its effort to 
deepen credit delivery to stimulate the challenge of unemployment and 
promote entrepreneurial spirit among Nigerian youths.1 The program 
is aimed at harnessing the entrepreneurship spirit of the teeming 
youth, by providing timely and affordable financial support to 
implement their business ideas. Target beneficiaries are members of 
the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), not more than five years post-
NYSC graduates, those who possess a verifiable tertiary institution 
certificate and artisans with First School Leaving Certificate or a 
technical certificate or accredited proficiency certificate from the 
National Board for Technical Education (NBTE), whichever is 
applicable. 
Graduates Entrepreneurship Fund (GEF). The Graduate 
Entrepreneurship Fund scheme is the Bank of Industry’s first youth 
program, in partnership with the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), 
specifically targeted at youths undergoing the mandatory 1-year 
national service.2 Specifically, the program as a funding opportunity 
apparatus for business ideas developed by youth corps members 
targeted those that undergo the SAED entrepreneurship training 
program and had developed a promising business plan. The 
programme aims to divert the mindset of the Nigerian youths to 
entrepreneurship and self-reliance as a means of employment, 
encouraging them to develop the habit of becoming their bosses, and 
equally contributing to the growth of the national economy. 
                                                           1 Youth Entrepreneurship Development Guidelines, Development Finance 
Department, Central Bank of Nigeria CBN Abuja, 2016 
February,https://www.cbn.gov.ng/Devfin/yedp.asp,p2 2Bank of Industry “Graduate Entrepreneurship Fund” 
https://www.boi.ng/graduate-entrepreneurship-fund/ 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Loans and Credit Facilities for Socio-Economic Development: 
123 
  
Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs).There is no universally 
accepted definition of SME, several efforts have been put in place to 
streamline the SME definition as its application varies from one country 
to another. Worthy of note, among the attempt to define SMEs was in 
the collection of the Financial Access in 2010. The most common 
definitions used by regulators are based on the number of employees, 
sales/and or loan size. Among the three variables or indices, the most 
common is the number of employee criteria. According to Oyah Ardict, 
sixty-eight countries provided information on the SME definition 
criteria used by the financial regulator. Fifty of them use the number of 
employee criteria, and 29 out of this fifty also use the other two criteria. 
A total of 41 regulators use the maximum sales value criteria, and 15 
use maximum loan value criteria to define an SME.3 The numbers of 
employees and sales values, therefore, are probably the most accurate 
parameters to define SME. In Nigeria, after realizing the enormous 
economic contribution of the SME sector, a regulatory body was 
established to foster the enhancement of the sector. In 2003,the Small 
and Medium Enterprises Development Agency of Nigeria was 
established by the SMEDAN Act of 2003 to promote the development of 
the SME sector of the Nigeria Economy. Among the mandate of the 
SMEDAN was reaching out or facilitating the access of micro, small and 
medium entrepreneurs and investors to all resources required for their 
development. Thus, the partnership with NYSC under the SAED 
program, SMEDAN is ensuring the provision of the necessary capital for 
promising business ideas of the youth corps members in its quest to 
establish a structured and efficient micro, small and medium 
enterprises sector for sustainable economic development. 
 
 
                                                           3  O.P Ardic, N. Mylenko and V. saltine “Small and Medium Entreprises: A Cross-
Country Analysis with a New Data Set”, in Policy Research Working Paper 5538”, 
The World Bank Financial and Private Sector Development Consultative Group to 
Assist the Poor, World Bank, 2011, p8. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                     H. Sirajo and Moh’d L. Murtala 
 124 
  
NYSC and Youth Development in Nigeria 
The youths all over the world constitute a greater percentage of the 
population of nations. According to the United Nations, the world is 
home to the largest generation of young people in history, 1.8 billion. 
Close to 90 percent of them live in developing countries.4 In Nigeria, the 
youth constitutes 60 to 70 percent of the population. It is in them lies 
the future, when founding fathers of NYSC, in their quest of avenues of 
building a united, strong, and indivisible political entity, their 
searchlight beamed on available human and material resources, 
precisely the educated youths population, which would be harnessed 
for the implementation of the policy of reconciliation, reconstruction 
and rehabilitation to rebuild the war-torn Nigeria.5Looking at the 
dynamism of the youth to the society, it is not far from the truth to say 
that the decision to inculcate in the Nigerian youth the spirit of self-
reliance, selfless service, patriotism, and discipline for capacity building 
was timely and efficient. Disorienting the mind of the youths on ethnic 
and religious differences, inter-ethnic hostilities, mistrust, and political 
upheavals was also part of the initiative. To further give credence to the 
significance of youth participatory roles as a catalyst for advancement, 
Hamza and Tyav captures it more holistically as thus; 
Efficient youth engagement contributes immensely to 
socio-economic advancement. Youth can constructively 
participate in the developmental processes of their 
communities given the right opportunity, skill, training, 
and encouragement. In spite of the odds against them, 
Nigerian youths have demonstrated innovativeness, 
character, and willpower that define developmental 
trajectory. They have shown that they are an important 
                                                           4 M Hamza and TT Tyav, “Leadership and Youth Development in Nigeria” in AO 
Ahmed, N Madiche and BJ Audu, (eds.), Leadership, Entrepreneurship & 
Development in Nigeria, Festschrift in honour of Prof Azubuike Sonny Nwankwo, 
(Kaduna: Nigerian Defence Academy Publishers, 2020)p142. 5See also inNational Youth Service Corps  Year Book: 2013 Edition,p23 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Loans and Credit Facilities for Socio-Economic Development: 
125 
  
cog of the developmental matrix of the Nigerian society 
and as critical stakeholders; they are at the center of 
the reconstruction of the Nigerian story.6 
Consequently, there is a dynamic body of literature on youth 
development, but basically, three aspects of youth development are 
identified by scholars which are within the context of this study. (a) 
natural (which is more of physical growth, traditional self-awareness of 
the environment and the use of other parts of the body, the most basic 
human activities, etc); (b) Principle (which emphasizes the agency of 
institutions, organizations, and individuals for the capacity growth of 
youths especially in the community level); and (c) Practice (the 
practical application of the principles acquired to foster and enhance 
the growth and the effectiveness of the natural growth).7 The NYSC 
scheme falls within the practice and principle category. As noted 
earlier, it is in the interest of the scheme, to pursue the economic 
empowerment of the Corps Members via skill acquisition training for 
self-development. This is as a result of the changing nature or 
circumstance in the ability of the government to employ the increasing 
number of graduates in the MDAs.  
Therefore, the need to train the youths in entrepreneurship skills for 
self-reliance became more necessary than it is before. Further to this, it 
is captured in the objectives as spelt out in section I, subsection 3(d) of 
the NYSC Act, “to enable Nigerian youth to acquire the spirit of self-
reliance, by encouraging them to develop skills for self-employment”.8 
                                                           6M Hamza and TT Tyav, “Leadership and Youth Development in Nigeria”..p143 7D.O Arubayi, “Youth Development: Understanding the Contribution of the 
National Youth Service Corps to Nigerian National Development” (unpublished 
Phd thesis, School of Environmental Education and Developmental Studies, Faculty 
of Humanities, University of Manchester, 2015), p84. 8S. Ibrahim, “Life Without White Collar: Imperatives for Vocational and 
Entrepreneurial Education: The NYSC Perspective” (A Paper Presented at the 11th 
Convocation Ceremony of Tai Solarin University of Education, Ijagun), 28th Nov, 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                     H. Sirajo and Moh’d L. Murtala 
 126 
  
In the realization of this, the NYSC has over the years, initiated 
programs aimed at addressing youth unemployment in the country. 
Notable among these programmes are the Skill Acquisition and 
Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) and the War Against Poverty 
(WAP), which are geared toward empowering the corps members for 
self-employment and wealth creation.9 
 
Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) 
The SAED program was established in 2012 as part of the Federal 
Government’s commitment to contribute to the attainment of the 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), as well as tackling youth 
unemployment.10This program involves the training of the corps 
members both in-camp and post-camp in various businesses and 
vocational entrepreneurial skills.  Since its inception, the SAED 
program has attracted so many collaborations from different agencies, 
national and international, non-governmental, private sectors, and 
many others. All are committed efforts to see the actualization of the 
objectives of the SAED, which among others are to equip the Nigerian 
graduates with the basic entrepreneurship skills for self-sustenance. As 
part of the commitment to ensuring that the objectives of the SAED 
program are achieved, the following key activities are implemented; 
i. sensitization and mobilization of Corps Members for 
enrollment into the skill acquisition and entrepreneurship 
development program; 
ii. entrepreneurship and hands-on training in and out of the 
camp; 
iii. identification of organizations at the state level to provide 
training and mentoring in specific skills sets; 
                                                                                                                                       
2019 in Selected Speeches and Strides of the 18th NYSC Director-General, Brig. Gen 
S. Ibrahim, May 2020. P176 9National Youth Service Corps  Year Book: NYSC 40THAnniversary Edition, 2013,p32 10National Youth Service Corps: 2016 Annual Report of the NYSC Scheme,p29 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Loans and Credit Facilities for Socio-Economic Development: 
127 
  
iv. attachments of the corps members to the various 
organizations for skills acquisition and entrepreneurship 
development; 
v. business plan/feasibility report development and collation; 
vi. monitoring and supervision of trainee Corps Members; and  
vii. facilitation of access to available funding opportunities.11 
SAED has recorded tremendous successes over the years of its 
establishment. Among these achievements of the program to date, no 
fewer than one million, one hundred and thirty-two thousand, four 
hundred and nine (1,132,409) corps members have been sensitized 
and reached with SAED messages, while over 764,677 have completed 
post-camp training.12 In addition to this, the Bank of Industry, one of the 
partners of the scheme, has trained over 3,927 corps members under 
the BOI-NYSC Graduate Entrepreneurship Fund. Among this number, 
1,077 of them have applied for loans in the sum of about N4 billion. As 
of now, a total of N540.2 million has been disbursed to 325 corps 
members, and they have established their businesses in different parts 
of the country.13 A statistic was given by the NYSC, which shows that 
each of the direct beneficiaries of the SAED, in turn, employs an average 
of four persons to run the business for them. Equally, corps members 
are being trained in nothing less than 12 skills; namely, Agro-Allied, 
Automobile, Construction, Food Preservation and Processing, Culture 
and Tourism, Cosmetology, ICT, Environment, Beatification, Education, 
Film and Photography, and Power and Energy. 
                                                           11National Youth Service Corps  Year Book: NYSC 40THAnniversary Edition, 
2013,p29 12 S. Ibrahim, “Life Without White Collar: Imperatives for Vocational and 
Entrepreneurial Education: The NYSC Perspective”..p180 13Bank of Industry “Graduate Entrepreneurship Fund” 
https://www.boi.ng/graduate-entrepreneurship-fund/. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                     H. Sirajo and Moh’d L. Murtala 
 128 
  
“Entrepreneurial education without start-up capital to set up the 
business is as good as not doing anything.”14Of all the identified efforts 
in training the corps members in various entrepreneurial skills, one 
important aspect worthy of note is in the area of securing capital for 
start-up. Securing credit facilities is a major challenge for most SMEs. 
This has been a major constraint to so many youth’s business ideas and 
dreams. It may interest you to also note that, among the key success 
factors of entrepreneurship education as noted by Ibrahim, is the 
effective development of the entrepreneurial ecosystem, in which 
collaboration is built with multiple stakeholders that work to create 
entrepreneurial ventures. This is an emphasis on the importance of 
collaborative efforts between stakeholders in meeting up with the 
youth sustainable development projects. In the NYSC for example, two 
categories of collaboration are identified, namely;  
a) the training partners who participate during the in-camp and 
post-camp training on the different skill sets and 
entrepreneurship development and  
b) secondly, the development partners which are various 
organizations at both national and international levels, 
international donor agencies, and private sector. This category 
of partners collaborated with the NYSC in the SAED program in 
to provide infrastructure, manpower, and empowerment of 
corps members with start-up capital.15 
 
The NYSC scheme in its quest to meet the needs towards meeting the 
national and global challenges in the area of youth development, has 
had of formal and informal engagements, collaborating with an 
inexhaustible list of donor agencies from international, national, 
regional, and local levels. Some of these agencies facilitate access to 
                                                           14S. Ibrahim, “Life Without White Collar: Imperatives for Vocational and 
Entrepreneurial Education: The NYSC Perspective”..p179 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Loans and Credit Facilities for Socio-Economic Development: 
129 
  
available funding opportunities for trained corps members in the 
capital, especially in actualizing the entrepreneurial skills acquired 
under the SAED program. These collaborations have yielded great 
achievements of the SAED programme as contained in the table below; 
 
Table 6.1 
S/N NAMEOF 
ORGANISATION 
NUMBER THAT 
RECEIVED LOANS 
AMOUNT 
1 Bank of Industry 1077 N540.02million 
2 Credit Direct Ltd 13,344 N629.016 million 
3 Central Bank of 
Nigeria 
07 N15 million 
TOTAL 14,428 N1.184Billion 
 
Source: S. Ibrahim, “Life Without White Collar: Imperatives for 
Vocational and Entrepreneurial Education: The NYSC Perspective” (A 
Paper Presented at the 11th Convocation Ceremony of Tai Solar in 
University of Education, Ijagun), 28th Nov 2019. P180 
 
The focus of this paper is an overview of the collaboration between 
NYSC and CBN, under Youth Entrepreneurship Development Program 
(YEDP), and NYSC-BOI Graduate Entrepreneurship Fund (GEF) 
respectively. 
 
Youth Entrepreneurship Development Program (YEDP) 
Over the years, the Central Bank of Nigeria CBN has continued to make 
known its intention to add more impetus to the collaborative 
entrepreneurship training program with the NYSC.16 This is in line with 
the Scheme’s aim of promoting the spirit of self-reliance and 
entrepreneurship among Nigerian youth. There are various initiatives 
                                                           16National Youth Service Corps  Year Book: NYSC 40TH Anniversary Edition, 
2013,p34 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                     H. Sirajo and Moh’d L. Murtala 
 130 
  
of the same sort organized by the CBN in collaboration with NYSC 
before the introduction of the YEDP. Notable among is the CBN-NYSC-
NDE Collaborative Entrepreneurship Training-Venture Prize 
Competition. This program commenced in 2008 with the training of 
600 corps members. It was an effort to encourage corps members in 
business plan development in a form of competition which may 
eventually win funding grants. As at 2013, five editions of the program 
have been held successfully, with the last edition holding at Ebonyi, 
Edo, Osun, Niger, and FCT.17 The central idea of the program was 
agreed in principle from the outset that the CBN takes responsibility for 
funding the feeding of the 600 corps members and provision of 
resource persons from the National Directorate of Employment (NDE), 
while the NYSC defrays the transportation cost of corps members to the 
various training centers.18 Corps members benefited greatly from the 
training, and it has contributed in no small way to the realization of the 
SAED mandate of raising a crop of young entrepreneurs and wealth 
creators rather than job seekers. 
The YEDP program was launched on the 15th of March 2016 under the 
development finance unit of the CBN. Among the aims was to enhance 
the deployment of the ingenuity and resourcefulness of Nigerian youths 
for maximum economic development.19 At the same time, the program 
was projected to provide a sustainable mechanism to stimulate 
employment, contribute to non-oil Gross Domestic product (GDP) and 
address the challenge of youth restiveness. This was a giant step taken 
by the CBN towards complimenting, as well as supporting the 
entrepreneurship skill acquisition training of the youth corps members 
                                                           17National Youth Service Corps, “NYSC SAED Description of Programme 
Activities” Department of Skills Acquisition and Interpreneurship Development, 
October, 2016, p3. 18National Youth Service Corps: 2016 Annual Report of the NYSC Scheme,p31 19 Opportunity for Africans, Bank of Industry Graduate Entrepreneurship Fund for 
NYSC Youth Corps Members, 2018 https://www.opportunitiesforafricans.com/boi-
gef-programme-2018-for-national-youth-service-corps-nysc-members/ 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Loans and Credit Facilities for Socio-Economic Development: 
131 
  
under the SAED program. Although, the program was originally 
designed for serving corps members and non-NYSC (but not more than 
five years post-NYSC), those with proficiency certificate from the 
National Board for Technical Education (NBTE), artisans with First 
School Leaving Certificate or a technical certificate or accredited also 
benefit. The set objectives of the program are as follows; 
i. harness the entrepreneurship skills and innovative capacities of 
youth; 
ii. improve access to finance for youth entrepreneurs using a well-
structured business model; 
iii. stimulate the flow of finance to start-up enterprises; 
iv. encourage job creation; 
v. increase the contribution of the non-oil sector to the GDP; and  
vi. promote diversification of the economy.20  
 
YEDP Guideline 
To access the YEDP funding, the guideline for the program indicates the 
eligibility, eligible activities, loan tenor, types of facilities, modalities of 
the program, repayment schedule among others, as shall be 
enumerated. The eligible activities as highlighted in the comprehensive 
guideline of the YEDP, it will cover start-up and expansion project for 
young graduates and non-graduates in the following sub-sectors; 
1. Eligible Activities 
Activities to be covered are startup and expansion projects for young 
graduates and non-graduates in the following sub-sectors: 
i. Agricultural Value Chain (fish farming, poultry, snail farming, 
etc.). 
ii. Cottage Industry. 
iii. Mining and Solid minerals. 
iv. Creative Industry (Tourism, Arts and Crafts). 
                                                           20National Youth Service Corps: 2016 Annual Report of the NYSC Scheme,p33 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                     H. Sirajo and Moh’d L. Murtala 
 132 
  
v. Information and Communications Technology(ICT). 
vi. Any other activity that may be determined by the CBN from 
time to time.21  
   
2. Type of Facilities 
i. Term loan 
ii. Working capital22  
 
3. Loan Tenor 
i. Loans shall have a maximum tenor of 36 months 
depending on the complexity of the project. The tenor of 
each project shall be determined in relation to its cash 
flow. 
ii. Working capital facility of 12 months with a maximum 
rollover of 12 months subject to approval. 
iii. Theprogrammeallowsformoratoriumof3monthsintheloanr
epayment schedule and qualified projects for moratorium 
shall be determined on case by case basis. 
4. Modalities of the Programme 
i. Loan Amount shall be N3 million maximum for a single 
obligor and N10 million for group projects jointly owned 
by 3-5 qualified beneficiaries. 
ii. Interest Rate - lending banks shall access the fund at 2% 
from the CBN and on-lend at a maximum rate of 9% per 
annum, all charges inclusive. 
iii. Funding shall come from the Micro Small and Medium 
Enterprises Development Fund (MSMEDF). 
                                                           21  CBN stated further that trading activities are not permitted under this program, 
priority will, however be given to entrepreneurial activities with high potentials for 
job creation. 22 CBN specifies that this facility shall not be used for the refinancing of projects. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Loans and Credit Facilities for Socio-Economic Development: 
133 
  
iv. NYSC Discharge Certificate shall be the collateral from 
beneficiaries. 
v. Verified certificates of tertiary institutions shall be taken 
as additional collateral for graduate beneficiaries. 
vi. Artisans will use their School Leaving Certificate or 
Technical Certificate or approved Proficiency Certificate 
from National Board for Technical Education (NBTE). 
vii. Third party guarantors will also be provided as additional 
collateral. 
viii. Lending bank shall obtain at least one credit report on 
promoter(s) for all projects. 
ix. Cost of training for beneficiaries will be shared between 
the CBN and the lending bank in a ratio of 50:50 or any 
other agreed ratio. 
x. Risk sharing on startups will beat 50:50 between the CBN 
and the lending bank as an incentive to banks to support 
startups and youth entrepreneurs. 
xi. Disbursement shall be in tranches and attached to project/ 
equipment financing to minimize fund diversion by 
beneficiaries. 
xii. All movable collaterals used to secure the loan shall be 
registered on the National Collateral Registry (NCR) by the 
lending bank. 
xiii. Within two weeks of repayment of loan, the lending bank 
shall discharge all registered movable collaterals on the 
National Collateral Registry and notify the customer 
accordingly. 
 
Repayment 
Repayments shall be amortized and monthly principal and interest 
repayments shall be remitted by the lending bank to the CBN. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                     H. Sirajo and Moh’d L. Murtala 
 134 
  
5. Eligibility Criteria for Participation in the Programme 
   Intended Beneficiaries 
i. A 50:50 shared between members of the National Youth 
Service Corps (NYSC) and Non-NYSC members (not more 
than 5 year spost-NYSC). 
ii. Artisans 
 
Borrower 
A borrower shall meet the following criteria to be eligible: 
iii. Be between 18 and 34 years of age. 
iv. Bean NYSC member or non-NYSC member 
(butnotmorethan5years post-NYSC). 
v. Possess a verifiable tertiary institution certificate. 
vi. Artisans shall possess School Leaving Certificate or 
Technical Certificate or approved Proficiency Certificate 
from NBTE (whichever is applicable). 
 
6. The Mechanism for the Programme 
i. Programme is an equal opportunity intervention in all 
respects - geo-political zone, gender, (dis)ability, etc. 
ii. Applicants will be pre-qualified by the lending bank using 
an on-line portal. 
iii. Pre-qualified applicants will undergo training before they 
can access the facility. Training will be handled by the CBN 
Entrepreneurship Development Centers(EDCs). 
iv. Pre-qualified applicants will submit their business 
proposal(s) to the lending bank for appraisal. 
v. Successful applicants will submit their loan applications in 
prescribed format to the lending bank. 
vi. Lending banks shall receive process, approve and forward 
requests for the facility from successful applicants to the 
CBN. 
vii. The pre-qualification and appraisal process by the lending 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Loans and Credit Facilities for Socio-Economic Development: 
135 
  
bank shall not exceed 15 days from the day of on-line 
submission of intent by prospective beneficiaries. 
viii. Each request must be accompanied by the following 
documents: 
(a) Business plan which should state expressly, the 
financing plan, economic benefits, etc. 
(b) Statement of Affairs for startups and companies with 
less than 3years of existence (If applicable). 
(c) Copies of duly executed offer documents between the 
bank and the loan applicants. 
(d) Certificate of Incorporation or registration of Business 
Name. 
(e) Brief on directors/partners. 
(f) At least one credit report of the 
promoter/entrepreneur. 
(g) Proposed schedule of fund disbursement and 
repayment. 
(h) Evidence of third party guarantee acceptable to the 
lending bank. 
ix. Within 5 working days of the receipt of the banks’ 
requests, the CBN shall inform the banks of the status of 
their request. 
x. Upon disbursement of the Fund by CBN, the lending bank 
shall within 5 working days disburse the approved limit 
according to the proposed disbursement schedule. 
7. Verification/ Monitoring of Projects 
i. The CBN reserves the right to reject an application from 
any lending bank that does not meet the requirements of 
the Guidelines. 
ii. Projects shall be monitored by the Monitoring Team 
comprising of the CBN, NYSC, and the lending bank. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                     H. Sirajo and Moh’d L. Murtala 
 136 
  
8. Management of the Programme 
The Development Finance Department of the Central Bank 
of Nigeria shall be responsible for the management of the 
Programme. 
 
9. Responsibilities of Stakeholders 
For effective implementation of the programme, the 
responsibilities of the stakeholders shall include: 
 Central Bank of Nigeria(CBN) 
The Central Bank of Nigeria shall: 
i. Articulate clear Guidelines for the implementation of the 
programme. 
ii. Determine the limits in accordance with the provisions 
of the MSMEDF Guidelines. 
iii. Provide logistic support for the training of pre-qualified 
applicants in collaboration with others take holders. 
iv. Approve and disburse loan requests from lending 
banks in favour of successful beneficiaries. 
v. Carry out verification and monitoring of projects 
financed. 
vi. Conduct impact evaluation in conjunction with the 
Monitoring Team and other relevant take holders. 
vii. Generate periodic reports on its performance. 
viii. Sensitize stakeholders and the public on the activities of 
the Scheme. 
ix. Facilitate review meeting of Stake holders. 
x. Review the Guidelines as may be necessary from time to 
time. 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Loans and Credit Facilities for Socio-Economic Development: 
137 
  
 Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs) 
The PFIs shall: 
i. Develop a portal to facilitate on-line registration by 
prospective applicants for pre-qualification. 
ii. Facilitate a link between the portal and the website of 
the NYSC for authentication of the details of NYSC 
members. 
iii. Pre-qualify, appraise and screen business proposals of 
applicants as part of their due diligence. 
iv. Forward such approved requests to CBN for verification 
and approval. 
v. Carry out all relevant due diligence in the administration 
of the facility. 
vi. Obtain at least one credit report on promoter(s) for all 
projects. 
vii. Verify all certificates used as collateral for the facility. 
viii. Cost of training for pre-qualified applicants will be 
shared between the CBN and the lending bank at 50:50 
or any other agreed ratio. 
ix. Grant credit ONLY to activities covered under these 
Guidelines at a maximum interest rate of 9% per 
annum all charges inclusive. 
x. Register all movable assets accepted or financed as 
collaterals for the loan with the National Collateral 
Registry(NCR). 
xi. Monitor the projects during the loan period. 
xii. Render periodic returns as may be specified by the CBN 
from time to time. 
xiii. Shall within 2 weeks of repayment, discharge all 
movable collaterals used to securitize the loan on the 
National Collateral Registry and notify the customer 
accordingly. 
xiv. Comply with the Guidelines of the Programme. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                     H. Sirajo and Moh’d L. Murtala 
 138 
  
National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) 
The NYSC shall: 
xv. Authenticate the details of corps members using its on-
line link with the lending bank. 
xvi. Provide lien on the discharge certificates of corps 
members who will benefit from the programme. 
xvii. Provide logistic support, that is, venue and 
accommodation for the training of applicants. 
  
 Borrower 
The borrower shall: 
i. Register for pre-qualification with the lending bank 
using the on-line portal for the Programme 
ii. Submit business proposal and other documentation 
requirements. 
iii. Adhere strictly to the terms and conditions of the 
Facility. 
iv. Utilize the funds for the purpose for which it was 
granted. 
v. Make the project and records available for inspection/ 
verification and monitoring by the CBN and Monitoring 
Team. 
vi. Comply with the Guidelines. 
vii. Cover their transportation cost for the training 
programme. 
 
10. Discontinuation of a Credit Facility 
i. Whenever a loan is repaid or the facility is otherwise 
discontinued, the lending bank shall return the fund to 
the CBN. 
ii. The lending bank shall discharge the movable collaterals 
from the National Collateral Registry. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Loans and Credit Facilities for Socio-Economic Development: 
139 
  
11. Infractions 
The following, among others, shall constitute infractions of 
these Guidelines: 
i. Delay in disbursement to beneficiaries 
ii. Delay in remittance of monthly repayments. 
Note: 
(a) For items (i) and (ii) above, penalty shall be 
Monetary Policy Rate (MPR) plus 2 per cent of the 
amount outstanding. 
(b) In cases of three (3) monthly defaults by the 
beneficiary, the lending bank shall be liable to pay 
back 50% of the amount outstanding within two (2) 
weeks, failing which the CBN shall debit the lending 
bank. 
(c) Wherever a case of negligence is established against 
the lending bank, the CBN shall be at liberty to debit 
the bank with the remaining 50% of the out standing 
amount. 
(d) Recoveries shall be shared in the ratio 50:50 by the 
CBN and the lending bank. 
 
12. Amendments 
These Guidelines shall be subject to review from time to time as 
may be deemed necessary by the CBN. 
Within eight months of the establishment of the YEDP program, a total 
of 1032 serving and ex-corps members have been trained under the 
program in seven centers.23 On the 20th of October 2016, CBN had 
occasioned the presentation of cheques to 310 corps members. The 
program as noted earlier was introduced in 2016 as a springboard for 
the empowerment of corps members and other youths for self-
                                                           23 National Youth Service Year Book: 2018 Edition, p62 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                     H. Sirajo and Moh’d L. Murtala 
 140 
  
employment and wealth creation. In 2019 also, the Governor of the 
Central Bank of Nigeria, Godwin Emefiele promised the Director-
General of the NYSC of the apex bank’s commitment and willingness to 
provide further opportunities for self-employment for corps members 
through its skill acquisition training. The CBN Governor explained that 
upon completion of training, beneficiaries would get the cumulative 
value which represents a loan that would be repaid within seven years 
with a two-year moratorium. He noted that the loan was conceived out 
of the need to reduce the unemployment rate in the country. He further 
enjoined the corps members to attend the bank’s entrepreneurship 
training centers, “to acquire skills in various vocational areas for 
economic survival at the end of their national service instead of waiting 
for white-collar jobs.”24  Furthermore, the CBN Governor assured the 
NYSC DG that the CBN National Microfinance Bank would also support 
interested corps members in business financing. Unlike the YEDP 
program, Graduate Entrepreneurship Fund GEF solely targeted young 
Nigerian graduates who are serving under the NYSC with capital for a 
start-up as well as the expansion of existing ones. 
 
Graduate Entrepreneurship Fund GEF 
Bank of Industry has been among the strategic partners of the NYSC in 
training young Nigerian youths during the youth service year especially 
in the aspect of entrepreneurship skill for self-employment. The novel 
scheme, Graduate Entrepreneurship Fund was a joint initiative of the 
BOI and the NYSC which provides a loan of up to a 2.0million at a 0% 
interest rate to encourage and support enterprises developed by 
serving youth corps members. It was established in 2015 as the first 
youth-driven program by the BOI. Although there are other programs 
of the same idea introduced by the BOI, an example of which is the 
                                                           24 “Unemployment: CBN Promises 7year Loans for Corpers”, Economic 
Confidential, 21 June, 2019, in Media Assessment: Shuaibu Ibrahim’s Silent 
Revolution in NYSC, Vol 1, 2020. p73. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Loans and Credit Facilities for Socio-Economic Development: 
141 
  
Youth Entrepreneurship Support Program (P-Yes Program). The aim is 
to change the job-seeking mindset of Nigerian youths to 
entrepreneurship for self-reliance and self-employment, by 
encouraging them to develop skills while contributing to the 
accelerated growth of the national economy.25 
 
Objectives of GEF 
 The Graduate Entrepreneurship Fund (GEF) is a product with the 
following objectives:  
• To encourage graduates of tertiary institutions currently 
undergoing the compulsory one-year NYSC programme, to 
venture into business and become employers of labour rather 
than job-seekers. 
• To address the entrepreneurship capacity gap of the young 
NYSC members. 
• To deepen financial inclusion by de-risking the NYSC members 
and making them eligible for small business loans to be 
provided by BOI. 
• Ensure sustainability of the business of the young graduates 
through effective monitoring of the corps members by the NYSC 
Directorate and BOI. 
  
Components of the GEF Programme 
The GEF Programme comprises the following: 
1. Capacity building Process through the following: 
i. Selection/screening of the NYSC members that will 
participate in the capacity building process through 
questionnaire to be administered on BOI online portal. 
ii. 4 days intensive training on generating a business idea 
(value proposition), how to run a profitable business 
                                                           25Bank of Industry Youth Entrepreneurship Support Program (P-YES) 
https://www.boi.ng/yes/,p2 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                     H. Sirajo and Moh’d L. Murtala 
 142 
  
(Business Model), and basic financial record keeping. 
This will be done in collaboration with the NYSC 
Directorate and shall be facilitated by BOI’s partner 
Entrepreneurship Development Centers/Institutions in 
the 36 states of the federation, including the Federal 
Capital Territory (FCT). 
2. Financial support for those with bankable business ideas within 
BOI’s SME clusters. 
Table 2 
RATIONALE 
The scheme is a special fund to encourage 
young Nigerian graduates of tertiary 
institutions who are currently serving under 
the NYSC programme to start up new 
businesses as well as expansion of existing 
ones. 
TARGET 
MARKET/ 
CRITERIA 
This product will be available to serving NYSC 
members that have successfully passed 
through the following stages: 
i.  Screening process 
ii.  Attended the capacity building programme 
developed specifically for the prospects under 
GEF 
iii.  Submitted a bankable business plans in 
respect of any of the Bank’s identified 40 SME 
clusters listed in Appendix I. (Any subsequent 
addition to the Bank’s identified cluster shall 
also be included) 
PROJECTED 
IMPACT 
The fund shall be deployed to support the 
establishment and/or expansion of an 
estimated 1,000 enterprises promoted by 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Loans and Credit Facilities for Socio-Economic Development: 
143 
  
NYSC members across the country. The 
scheme is expected to create a minimum of 
5,000 direct jobs and 25,000 indirect jobs 
annually, totaling 30,000 jobs. 
PROGRAM 
LIMIT N2.0 billion in the first year. 
OBLIGOR LIMIT Up to N2 million 
  
PRICING Interest Rate: Nill (0%), effective from 
1st May, 2017. 
TENOR 3 – 5 years. 
MORATORIUM Six months from date of Loan Disbursement. 
SECURITY 
Security for the facility will be combination of: 
1.  Specific charge over the equipment 
(present and future). 
2.   Lien on the NYSC discharge certificate 
3.   Undertaking by the NYSC Directorate not 
to release the discharge certificate until the 
loan is liquidated. 
4.  One (1) external guarantor acceptable to 
BOI who must belong to any of the following 
categories: 
1. Senior Civil Servant (Level 7 and 
above). 
       2.   Bankers (not below the level of   
      banking Officer) and must have been   
      confirmed by current employer. 
       3.   Professionals i.e. Medical Doctors,  
              Lawyers, Accountants, Engineers, etc. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                     H. Sirajo and Moh’d L. Murtala 
 144 
  
        4.   Senior Staff of reputable quoted     
              Companies, International Oil    
              Companies, Telecommunications  
              Companies (GSM providers). 
       5.    Elected public servants/    
              administrators. 
       6.    Reputable entrepreneurs with on- 
              going entities and registered business    
              names. 
        7.   Clergy men. 
  
The guarantees must be supported with a 
Notarized Statement of Net worth acceptable 
to BOI. 
FUNDING 
STRUCTURE 
 Purchase of assets 
for business: 
Machinery and 
equipment. 
  
Up to 100% of the 
investment need 
and or 
Working Capital: 
purchase of raw 
materials, 
operational cost, 
leases/ rentals of 
premises, renovation, 
insurance of assets 
and utility bill (for 
first three months of 
operation). 
Up to 50% of the 
working capital 
need. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Loans and Credit Facilities for Socio-Economic Development: 
145 
  
  
DISBURSEMENT 
Term Loan: 
50% advance payment to equipment 
suppliers and payment of the balance only 
after satisfactory delivery and installation of 
the equipment. RMD to issue a letter of 
undertaking for the payment of the balance. 
However, full cash payment can be made in 
advance where items of equipment are to be 
bought from the likes of Cash n Carry, 
Shoprite, Jumia etc. 
Working Capital: 
50% of loan amount, to be disbursed after 
successful installation and testing of the 
equipment. 
Source: Bank of Industry “Graduate Entrepreneurship Fund” 
https://www.boi.ng/graduate-entrepreneurship-fund/ 
 
Conclusion 
It is now evident from the foregoing, therefore, that the NYSC in 
collaboration with CBN and BOI has tremendously contributed to the 
actualization of a plethora of business ideas developed by the youth 
corps members who undertook the skill acquisition training under the 
SAED program through the provision of the required funding for take-
up as well as the expansion of existing ones. As noted in the paper, 
business ideas plus skill acquisition training are not enough to kick-
start a business without adequate funding as capital. For this reason, as 
extensively enumerated in the paper, the Central Bank of Nigeria and 
the Bank of Industry deemed it necessary to intervene with funding 
opportunities, with the introduction of the novel Youth 
Entrepreneurship Development Program and the Graduate 
Entrepreneurship Fund respectively. That in turn, has instilled the 
spirit of entrepreneurship in the youth and have equally stimulated 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                     H. Sirajo and Moh’d L. Murtala 
 146 
  
employment. Consequently, a plethora of serving youth corps members 
including ex-corps members had successfully accessed the fund and 
since established their businesses. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Loans and Credit Facilities for Socio-Economic Development: 
147 
  
Bibliography 
 
Ardic O. P, Mylenko N, and Saltine V. “Small and Medium Entreprises: A 
Cross-Country Analysis with a New Data Set”, in Policy 
Research Working Paper 5538”, The World Bank Financial and 
Private Sector Development Consultative Group to Assist the 
Poor, World Bank, 2011. 
Arubayi, D.O “Youth Development: Understanding the Contribution of 
the National Youth Service Corps to Nigerian National 
Development” (unpublished Phd thesis, School of 
Environmental Education and Developmental Studies, Faculty 
of Humanities, University of Manchester, 2015). 
Bank of Industry “Graduate Entrepreneurship Fund” 
https://www.boi.ng/graduate-entrepreneurship-fund/. 
Bank of Industry Youth Entrepreneurship Support Program (P-YES) 
https://www.boi.ng/yes/,p2 
CBN specifies that this facility shall not be used for the refinancing of 
projects. 
CBN stated further that trading activities are not permitted under this 
program, priority will, however be given to entrepreneurial 
activities with high potentials for job creation. 
Hamza M and Tyav, TT “Leadership and Youth Development in Nigeria” 
in AO Ahmed, N Madiche and BJ Audu, (eds.), Leadership, 
Entrepreneurship & Development in Nigeria, Festschrift in 
honour of Prof Azubuike Sonny Nwankwo, (Kaduna: Nigerian 
Defence Academy Publishers, 2020). 
Ibrahim, S, “Life Without White Collar: Imperatives for Vocational and 
Entrepreneurial Education: The NYSC Perspective” (A Paper 
Presented at the 11th Convocation Ceremony of Tai Solarin 
University of Education, Ijagun), 28th Nov, 2019 in Selected 
Speeches and Strides of the 18th NYSC Director-General, Brig. 
Gen S. Ibrahim, May 2020. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                     H. Sirajo and Moh’d L. Murtala 
 148 
  
National Youth Service Corps Act Cap N84 Laws of the Federation of 
Nigeria 2004. 
National Youth Service Corps Year Book, NYSC 40TH  Anniversary 
Edition, 2013. 
National Youth Service Corps Year Book: 2013 Edition. 
National Youth Service Corps, “NYSC SAED Description of Programme 
Activities” Department of Skills Acquisition and 
Interpreneurship Development, October, 2016. 
National Youth Service Corps: 2016 Annual Report of the NYSC Scheme. 
National Youth Service Year Book: 2018 Edition. 
Opportunity for Africans, Bank of Industry Graduate Entrepreneurship 
Fund for NYSC Youth Corps Members, 2018 
https://www.opportunitiesforafricans.com/boi-gef-
programme-2018-for-national-youth-service-corps-nysc-
members/  
Unemployment: CBN Promises 7year Loans for Corpers”, Economic 
Confidential, 21 June, 2019, in Media Assessment: Shuaibu 
Ibrahim’s Silent Revolution in NYSC, Vol 1, 2020. 
Youth Entrepreneurship Development Guidelines, Development 
Finance Department, Central Bank of Nigeria CBN Abuja, 2016 
February,https://www.cbn.gov.ng/Devfin/yedp.asp. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Skills Acquisition Programmes and Igbo Youth Empowerment in Nigeria 
149 
 
    77 77    
    The Role of Private Enterprises in the SAED 
Programme 
 
 
Abubakar Yusuf Umar 
 
 
Introduction 
Globally, youths constitute the largest and most productive 
demography. They account for one of every six people.1 In Nigeria, 
youths make the most productive age group compared to other age 
brackets, they constitute about 70% of the population. However, youth 
                                                           1 UN Department of Economic and social affairs. “Youth Population trends and 
Sustainable Development” 
https://www.un.org/esa/socdev/documents/youth/fact-sheets/YouthPOP.pdf  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                            Abubakar Yusuf Umar 
150 
 
unemployment is a major challenge to the country, it is estimated that 
about 35% of youths are currently unemployed in Nigeria.  
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC). It was established in 1973 as 
part of the post-Nigerian civil war (1967-1970) programmes to heal 
the wounds and unite Nigerians. The target of NYSC is young graduates 
who are fresh from tertiary institutions,  to harness their youthfulness 
for national integration, unity and national development.   
Since its inception, the NYSC has achieved a lot in the areas of 
integration, education, health delivery , mobility of labour geared 
towards national development. The increasing rate of youth 
unemployment led to the establishment of the Skills Acquisition and 
Entrepreneurship Programme (SAED) in 2012.  SAED is aimed at 
equipping youths with the necessary skills to pursue successful 
entrepreneurial endeavours as well as skills that will make them 
compete well in the labour market. SAED has successfully built  
partnership with government and private bodies to further the 
success of the programme through training and funding. With specific 
reference to private enterprises, there have been huge successes 
recorded in the partnership. Private enterprises have contributed 
immensely both during in-camp and post-camp training by donating 
materials and other manpower needs for the successful execution of 
the entrepreneurship and Skills acquisition training. 
The focus of this chapter is to assess the role of private enterprises 
that partner with the NYSC SAED Programme and their contributions 
towards the success of the SAED initiative. The chapter after a 
conceptual clarification will give an overview of the SAED 
programme, addressing its objectives, the department structure and 
the 12 skill sets that every Corps member is expected to pick from and 
train during the period of service year. 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Skills Acquisition Programmes and Igbo Youth Empowerment in Nigeria 
151 
 
Definition of Terms 
SAED: Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development is a 
programme of the National Youth Service Corps established in 2012 to 
tackle and reduce the rate of unemployment among the Nigerian 
graduates through training to specialize in business development and 
to acquire various skills across 12 different growth sectors of the 
economy in order to become employers of labour rather than job 
seekers.2 
Private Enterprises: Private Sector or enterprises are the 
businesses that are owned by a private groups or an individual. 
Different types of businesses under private enterprises are a 
Partnership, Sole Proprietorship, Cooperative, and Company.2    
Partnership: Partnership is an arrangement where parties, agree to 
cooperate to advance their mutual interests. The partners in a 
partnership may be individuals, businesses, interest-based 
organisations, schools, governments or combinations.3 
 
An Overview of the SAED Programme 
The NYSC SAED program was created to address the challenges of 
unemployment, is by instilling the spirit of self-reliance among Corps 
members. The aim of the programme is to encourage the acquisition 
of skills by the Nigerian graduate for self-reliance which is one of its 
core mandates.4 The program has since been used as a mechanism 
                                                           2  Padgett, John F. etal. “Organizational Invention and Elite Transformation: 
The Birth of Partnership Systems in Renaissance Florence” American Journal of 
Sociology, Vol. 111, No. 5, 2006, Pp 1463=1568 
3 https://Byjus.com/commerce/concepts-private-public-enterprises/   4 Deeborm MB. Tambari and Daerego I. Taylor, “The Influence of National Youth 
Service Corps Enterpreneurship, Skills Acquisition Programmes on Youth 
Empowerment In Rivers State” International Journals of Humanities, Social 
Sciences and Education (IJHSSE), Volume 7, Issue 6, June 2020, Pp 146 - 147 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                            Abubakar Yusuf Umar 
152 
 
towards addressing the challenges of unemployment in Nigeria.5 The 
goals of the programme include creating awareness among young 
graduates who are Corps members for acquisition of basic skills 
training for entrepreneurship development. The SAED as an important 
department of the NYSC is headed by a Director and is made up of 
three divisions namely: Partnership, Empowerment and Programme. 
These Three  departments are saddle with the responsibilities of: 
• Giving orientation and training to over 200,000 Corps members 
to fully grasp the skills acquisition yearly. 
• Assist in training and tutoring of 100,000 young graduates in 
skills acquisition and entrepreneurship development for self-
reliance annually. 
• Developing an entrepreneurship partnership aiming towards 
self-reliance of the youths between the private and the public 
sector as well. 
• Providing new ways and methods on how best Nigerian youths’ 
employment and empowerment are done. 
• Supporting evidence-driven funding programmes to formulate 
policies that enhances Nigerian youths’ employment and 
empowerment. 
• Organising orientational training programmes on the 
importance of Corps members enroling into skills acquisition 
and entrepreneurship development program. 
• Identification of relevant organizations at state level to provide 
training and mentoring in specific skills sets. 
• Attaching   the   Corps   members   to   the   various   
organizations   for   skills   acquisition   and entrepreneurship 
development. 
                                                           5 National Youth Service Corps, “NYSC SAED Description of 
Programme Activities”....... 2016, Pp 05. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Skills Acquisition Programmes and Igbo Youth Empowerment in Nigeria 
153 
 
• On-going monitoring and supervision of trainee Corps 
members and  Facilitating and fastracking access to available 
funding opportunities.6 
The primary aim of SAED programme is to encourage Nigerians 
generally, and Nigerian youths particularly, to embrace 
entrepreneurship activities in order to create jobs not just for 
themselves but to employ the service of others in the long run. Thr 
NYSC has entered into partnership with the public and the private 
sector for the purposes of training and funding corps members for 
skills and entrepreneurship development. The programme is  
structured  to start during the orientation course and continue through 
the period of the primary assignment. It is expected that each Corps 
member learns a skill that can position them to become job creators 
rather than job hunters and hence reduce the number of unemployed 
youth in the country.7 
 
The SAED has two main components and the monitoring and 
valuation division as follows: 
(a) Skills Acquisition Division: this division focus its attention mainly 
on equipping the Corps members in different areas of their interest  
with  specific  professional, technical/vocational training and skills on 
how to identify their skills set based on their peculiar interests and 
realities. 
(b) Entrepreneurship Development Division: This division focuses 
more on developing the business/enterprise capacities in Corps 
members who by virtue of their undergraduate training have one way 
or the other acqured certain level of competencies in specific fields, 
                                                           6 National Youth Service Corps, “NYSC SAED Description of Programme 
Activities”....... 2016, Pp 05. 7  Muhammad Sani Yahaya, Civil Servant, 45years, Interviewed at his residence 
opposite NYSC Headquarter, Kinsasha Kaduna, 14/02/2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                            Abubakar Yusuf Umar 
154 
 
and those Corps members who have undergone the skills acquisition 
training and have the full intention to broaden their possibilities of 
attaining self-reliability. It is at this level and this department that 
issues like feasibility studies, development of business plans, 
marketing strategies, product branding,  product advertisement, 
financial management, access to funding opportunities, and legal 
franchising, among others is being vigorously and thoroughly 
discussed.8  
(c) Monitoring  &  Evaluation:  Another  important  component  of  
the  above mentioned two divisions is the monitoring and evaluation 
unit whose sole responsibilities focuses on effectiveness, managing and 
delivering on set project outcomes. They specifically provide every 
framework needed for the measurement of performance against set 
target, thereby identifying any form of deviation with the clear 
intention of correcting them as well as providing essential information 
on implementation for project improvement and decision making. For 
effectiveness and getting the best out of the M&E unit, a working 
system has been outlined for the provision of a running plan to keep 
the M&E as an integral part of the overall project implementation. With 
this therefore, there has been a standard structure with key positions 
for effective functions of the M&E. The structure serves as the starting 
point for the Monitoring and Evaluation to execute their responsibilities 
within the context of project management framework.9  Other key 
aspect considered under the monitoring and evaluation include: 
• Special training on the project for the personnel of the M&E 
• Development of a performance framework based on the project 
strategic plan 
• Costed Monitoring and Evaluation workplan 
                                                           8 Adedeji Oluwaseun and Isaiah Babatunde, “The Skills Acquisition and 
Enterpreneurship….2018, Pp 3. 9 National Youth Service Corps, “NYSC SAED Description of Programme 
Activities”....... 2016, Pp 11 - 12. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Skills Acquisition Programmes and Igbo Youth Empowerment in Nigeria 
155 
 
• Development of an appropriate tools for data capture and 
reporting 
• Procurement and installation of relevant softwares for data 
analysis & warehousing, and development of a data use plan, 
specifically, by providing a mechanism for tracking 
implementation  and  documentation  of  project  activities.  The  
routine  key  indicators  to  be measured and evaluated include: 
1.    Number  of  Corps  members  enrolling  and  
completing  various  skills  acquisition  and 
enterpreneurship programs across various states to be 
captured. 
2.    Number of business plans developed disaggregated by 
type 
3.    Number of successful business plans diaggregated by 
type 
4.    number of stakeholders meetings convened 
5.    Number and type of stakeholders participating in 
stakeholders meetings10 
 
SAED 12 Skill Sets 
The SAED Programme has 12 different skill sets that the Corps 
members are expected to identify with, as follows: 
1.  Agro-Allied: This sector has sub-sectors that include fish 
farming, cow fattening, grass-cutter farming, livestock feed, 
Poultry Farming, Piggery, Rabbitery, Snails Farming, Beans 
Cultivation and Honey. 
2.   Automobile:  This  sector  covers  Auto  Electrical,  Spray  
Painting,  Upholstery,  Wheel Alinement and Balancing, Engines, 
and Air Conditioning. 
                                                           10 National Youth Service Corps, “NYSC SAED Description of Programme 
Activities”....... 2016, Pp 11 - 12 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                            Abubakar Yusuf Umar 
156 
 
3.  Culture & Tourism: This sector equally covers Leather 
works, Exterior Decoration, Beads, and Design. 
4.   Cosmetology:  The sector comprises of Production of 
Cosmetics, Soaps, Detergents & Household Products, Hair 
Styling, and Laundry Services. 
5.  Construction:  aluminium  and  Steel  Works,  Construction  of  
public  Toilet, and Electrical Installation 
6.   Education:  education  cover  areas  such  as  Training,  Day  Care  
Centers,  Driving  School, Nursery and Primary School. 
7.  Environment: Plastering, Moldings, Ceilings, Screeds, 
Painting, Interior, Decoration, tiles, and Blocks, and Carpentry. 
8.  Film & Photography: P & P covers fields such as Editing, 
Location Manager, Photography, Researcher, Runner, Camera and 
Sign Operation. 
9.   Food  Processing/Preservation:  Catering,  Cakes,  Snacks,  
Wheat  &  Flour,  Beverages  & drinks. 
10.  Horticulture & Landscaping: Compost Preparation, 
Horticulture, Plant Nursery, Orchards, Tree Planting. 
11.   Information  and Communication  Technology:  Hardware,  
Software, Programming, Repairs, Online Business, Business 
Center, Website, and GSM Repair.11 
12.  Power & Energy: Generator Maintenance, Solar Energy 
Conversion, Inverter, Plumbing, Welding, and Oil and Gas. 
 
Private Enterprises and their Contribution to The SAED 
Programme  
The NYSC SAED programme has entered into partnership with 
various private and public  organisations/enterprises  both  local  
and  international  for  the  success  of  the  SAED programme. These 
enterprises/organisations have contributed greatly towards the 
                                                           11 Adedeji Oluwaseun and Isaiah Babatunde, “The Skills Acquisition and 
Enterpreneurship….2018, Pp 3. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Skills Acquisition Programmes and Igbo Youth Empowerment in Nigeria 
157 
 
success of the Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development 
(SAED). Some of these enterprises and their contributions to the 
success of SAED initiatives are as follows: 
 
International Labour Organisation (ILO) 
The International Labour Organisation is a United Nations agency 
whose mandate is to advance social and economic justice through 
setting international labour standards. It’s an organisation that was 
founded in October 1919 under the league of nations, and it is the 
first and oldest specialised agency of the UN. The International 
Organisation is one of the major donors, and partners of the NYSC 
SAED Programme. This organization stands out as a major 
contributors towards the success of SAED Programme in several 
aspects including training of 40 SAED officials as Master Trainers 
under the Start and Improve Your Business (SIYB). Other aspect 
impact for the success of the programme include: 
● Developing  framework  for  implementing  the  SAED 
Programme  on  entrepreneurship development. 
●   Supporting the development of SAED in-camp training 
curriculum. 
●    Funding the first debriefing meeting of SAED programme staff 
from 36 states and FCT and partners in May 2012. 
●   Sponsoring (9) SAED officials on capacity building 
programmes in Turin, Morocco, and  Zambia since 2013. 
●    Approving the training of 40 NYSC staff trained as Start and 
Improve Your Business (SIYB) Master Trainer; 
● Coordinating talks with ILO partners to leverage financial, 
material and technical support for the SAED programme; and 
●    Advocating for entrepreneurship development and youth 
empowerment in Nigeria. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                            Abubakar Yusuf Umar 
158 
 
The organization further intends to render support in the area of 
continued capacity building for SAED officials to enable them meet the 
pressing demands for more services. It equally intend to expand and 
widen the SIYB training to the 36 states and FCT. According to the 
Director of the International Labour Organisation: 
“ILO is ready to support the Federal Government of 
Nigeria and its partners on employment creation 
initiatives”, ILO Plans are already underway to 
implement the ToT workshop. “Training three hundred 
thousand (300,000) youths annually through the NYSC 
Scheme will contribute immensely towards creating 
employment opportunities and sustainable enterprise 
development in Nigeria”.12 
 
The   International   Labour   Organisation   has   composed   a   well-
structured   curriculum   on How-to-Start-and-Improve-Your-Business-
Guide which was used for training of (49) SAED officers on 
entrepreneurship by multi nationals like General Electric and 
Cognity Advisory. These officers have in turn trained 600 Corps 
members on development of a business plan.13 
 
Unity Bank Plc 
The Unity Bank Plc is a commercial bank in Nigeria and a large 
service provider with it’s headquarters in Lagos Nigeria’s 
commercial capital. They are known to maintain an operation base in 
Abuja the Federal Capital Territory. They have net worth of 
US$2.45billion as of 2012.14  Unity bank entered into partnership with 
                                                           12 International Labour Organisation: “The Director-General, Nigeria National 
Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Visit 
ILO Country Office Abuja” www.ilo.org/africa/about-about-us/offices/abuja/WCMS 13 International Labour Organisation: “The Director-General, Nigeria National 
Youth Service Corps  
14 Overview of Unity Bank Plc, https://Wikipedia.org. March 05, 2021 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Skills Acquisition Programmes and Igbo Youth Empowerment in Nigeria 
159 
 
the National Youth Service Corps to compliment the SAED programme 
by funding the development of business plans that can attract start up 
capital from other financial institutions.15 
In  this  regard  they  organise  the  flagship  of  business  plan  
competition  in  2020  known  as “Corpreneurship Challenge” featuring 
twelve Corps members. They have won prizes totalling N4 million 
naira. The winners of this competition emerged during the final 
business pitch in the fourth edition of the contest for NYSC 2020 Batch 
B Corps members who took place simultaneously across four NYSC 
camps in Lagos, Ogun, Benin, and Abuja. The cash prize included 
N200,000 business grant for each of the second place runner up, 
N300,000 business grant for the first runner ups and a star prize of 
N500,000 for each of the four winners.16 
Some of the winners are Evelyn Esumai, Aisosa Erica, and Ozouka 
Moses in Abuja camp, while Akomolade Blessing, Okafor Augustine, 
and Edokpayi Harrison emerged the winners in the Benin Camp. In 
Lagos, the winners are Moses Bolanle, Iran-Ola Oluwosulu and Zainab 
Muhammed. The competition has attracted interests from the Corps 
members, as over 300 applications were received but only fourty 
were shortlisted for the pitching session from where the twelve 
winners emerged. The contestants business plans ranged from fish 
production, poultry farming, fashion, piggery, to beverages were all 
were assessed on originality, marketability, future employability 
potentials of the product and knowledge of the business. While 
commenting on the concluded competition, the Group Head, Retail and 
SME Banking Mr. Olufunwa Akinmade said: 
The competition was to encourage more youths with 
clear entrepreneurial intentions to expand or start 
profitable ventures… “the grant are not loan and we 
                                                           15 Overview of Unity Bank Plc, https://Wikipedia.org. March 05, 2021 16 Overview of Unity Bank Plc, https://Wikipedia.org. March 05, 2021 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                            Abubakar Yusuf Umar 
160 
 
want the money to be directed towards profitable 
ventures…. First, you must learn that making mistakes 
is part of business. It is important to constantly think 
about the challenges you will face, put the same energy 
one has displayed in preparing for this contest in your 
businesses as you face your post-service year.17 
 
Access Bank Nigeria Plc 
Access Bank Plc is a Nigerian multinational commercial bank, 
owned by Access Bank Group.18  It is licensed by the Central Bank of 
Nigeria, the national bank regulator. It has it’s headquarters located in 
Lagos, the most commercial city of Nigeria. 
It is one of the major donors and partners of NYSC SAED initiatives 
that has greatly contributed towards the success of SAED Programme, 
the management of the bank donated a multi-million naira skill 
acquisition center to the National Youth Service Corps for training of 
Corps members in automobile, carpentry, tailoring, hairdressing, 
metal/mechanical workshop, catering, GSM repair, barbing salon, 
ICT among others in both Jigawa and Gombe State.  The bank is one 
of the key partners of the NYSC and has continued to contribute 
their quota towards development and progress of the SAED initiative. 
The Managing Director of the Bank commended the NYSC scheme  for  
introducing  skills  acquisition  and  entrepreneurship  development  
programme  for Corps members. The bank hasbeen instrumental in 
                                                           17  “NYSC Members WIn N4million in Unity Bank Challenge” This Day Newspaper, 
February 11, 2021, Retrieved: 
www.thisdaylive.com/index.php/2021/02/11/nysc-members-win-n4m-in-unity-
bank-challenge/ 18 CBN, “list of Financial Institutions: Commercial Banks” Abuja: Central Bank of 
Nigeria. Retrieved 5th March, 
2021 www.wikipedia.org/wiki/Access_bank_plc 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Skills Acquisition Programmes and Igbo Youth Empowerment in Nigeria 
161 
 
urging the private sector to support the NYSC scheme  in  its  quest  to 
reduce unemployment among the youths. 
 
Bank of Industry (BOI): 
The Bank of Industry is the oldest, largest Development Finance 
Institution (DFI) currently operating in Nigeria. It is owned by the 
Ministry of finance Incorporated (MOFI) Nigeria with 94.80%, the 
Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) with (5.19%), and private shareholders 
(0.01%). It was founded in 1959 just one year before independence.19  
It is also a partner of NYSC SAED programme and has contributed 
immensely towards the success of the SAED initiative by providing 
trained Corps members with start up after successful completion of 
their training under the SAED programme. So far, over the years in the 
course of time, the Bank of Industry has successfully disbursed 
loan amounting to N340.02million to 1,077 Corps members as a start 
up.20 
 
British America Tobacco Nigeria Foundation (BATNF) 
The British America Tobacco Nigeria Foundation (BATNF) was 
established as an independent charity by British American Tobacco 
Nigeria in November 2002, with a start-up grant of US$1million.   The   
establishment   of   the   foundation   fulfils   a   commitment  made  in  
the memorandum  of  understanding  between  British  American  
Tobacco  Nigeria  and  the Federal Government  of  Nigeria,  to  
                                                           19 C BN, “list of Financial Institutions: Commercial Banks” Abuja: Central Bank 
of Nigeria. Retrieved 5th March, 
2021 www.wikipedia.org/wiki/Access_bank_plc 
20 Bank of Industry Annual Report & Accounts 2016. Retrieved; 
www.wikipedia.org/bank-of-industy, 2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                            Abubakar Yusuf Umar 
162 
 
provide  a  means  for  the  company  to  contribute  to  Nigeria’s socio-
economic development.21 
The British America Tobacco Nigeria Foundation is one among other 
partners of the National Youth Service Corps SAED programme. They 
continue to contribute significantly to the success of the SAED 
initiative by bankrolling a programme on Agro-entrepreneurship 
training to Corps members. Those successful Corps members that 
emerged from the screening process undergone training and 
mentoring in big farm establishments. The winners of this 
programme are equally empowered with fund, land, and agricultural 
inputs and services.22 
 
Schoolville (The New Frontier for Education) 
Schoolville is a private enterprise that focuses their attention mainly 
on educational sector. They are  suppliers  of  educational  products,  
and  equally  rendered  services  such  as  training  of personnel.  They 
provide best services at subsidized rates to Corps members. Such 
services include courses and live training programs in order to equip 
the Corps with skills about independent sustenance and business 
management understanding as well. 
They train Corps members on field such as computer hardware repair 
and maintenance. They provide post camp training to Corps members 
at their training centers during Corps service year.23 
 
 
 
                                                           21 Core Reporters, “NYSC Partners Private Sectors on Skill Acquisition” Retrieved 
on www.corereporters.com.ng/nysc-partners-private-sectors-on-skills-acquisition/ 22 Brig. Gen. S Ibrahim, “Selected Speeches and Strides of 18th NYSC Director-
General” National Youth Service Corps, 2020, Pp 175. 23 Schoolville: Parners with NYSC on SAED, www.schoolville.co,/updates/schoolvill-
partner-with-nysc, 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Skills Acquisition Programmes and Igbo Youth Empowerment in Nigeria 
163 
 
Credit Direct 
This is a non collateral financial institution that specialized on 
issuance of loans to individuals and small scale businesses. They are 
equally private partners of the NYSC SAED scheme and have 
contributed by making funds for start-up available for Corps members 
that have undergo the SAED training both in-camp and post-camp. 
They have successfully disbursed N629.01Million Naira loan  to  
13,344  Corps members since their involvement in partnership 
with the SAED NYSC programme.24 
 
Sealpit Engineering and Consult Services 
Sealpit Engineering Network Services has parnered with the NYSC 
SAED programme in its quest for the realization of its set objectives 
and as such helping to initiate targeted young Nigerian  graduates  
mobilized  and  deployed  in  the  one  year  mandatory  service. The 
SAED program and the SEALPIT Services has an ambitious vision 
to enable the creation of atleast 20,000  sustainable  enterprises  
annually,  and  get  minimum  of  150,000  Corps  member  to  be 
productively engaged, generating sustainable economic value through 
employment or entrepreneurship annually.25 
The SEALPIT Services partnered with SAED to provide soft skills 
engineering training, development and more with the hope of helping 
the nation’s future leaders to be responsible for themselves and the 
nation at large. SEALPIT engineering and consulting services always 
stress that your success is our success.26 
 
 
                                                           24 Sealpit Engineering and Consulting Services, https://sealpitservices.com/nysc-
saed-partnership/, retrieved 05 May, 2021. 25 Sealpit engineering  26 Fizcos, Corps Members Creating Wealth.. 
www.fizcos.com/nyscsaed/nyscsaed.html, Retrieved: 05 May, 2021 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                            Abubakar Yusuf Umar 
164 
 
Fizcos Infotech Solution 
Fizcos is an information communication technology private 
enterprise that partners with NYSC SAED program. They specialize in 
providing training services to Corps members both in-camp and 
post-camp. They provide training such as software development and 
website design, hardware and Networking, finance and Statistical 
consultancy, Database management, Microsoft office Specialisation, 
Graphics/Digital Imaging, Geology/Earth Sciences, E-Commerce/ 
Business Skills, Project  management,  and  engineering  applications  
like  AutoCAD,  2D,  3D,  Civil3D, AutoDesk, 3DMAX, ArchiCAD, Revit, 
Architectur, PDMS, etc.27 
 
Chinese Government:  The Chinese government through its 
embassy has contributed to the progress of the SAED NYSC 
programme by sponsoring eight SAED staff to train on different 
vocational training programmes in China through their embassy in 
Nigeria.28   
 
Conclusion 
The NYSC SAED programme is one of a kind programme that 
recorded successes since its establishment in 2012. There have been 
several initiatives like the SAED program yet, none have achieved the 
success recorded by the program. This is due to the fact that special 
attention was given to the program by intellectual officials and the 
fact that there is transparency in the NYSC programme, the SAED has 
been able to impact the lives of countless graduates that have 
undergone the training during service year. It is important to point out 
that the success of the SAED programme cannot be complete without 
                                                           27  Fizcos, Corps Members Creating Wealth.. 
www.fizcos.com/nyscsaed/nyscsaed.html, Retrieved: 05 May, 2021 
28 Brig. Gen. S Ibrahim, “Selected Speeches and Strides of 18th NYSC Director-
General” National Youth Service Corps, 2020 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Skills Acquisition Programmes and Igbo Youth Empowerment in Nigeria 
165 
 
the influence of the organisations or enterprises like the 
International labour Organisations whose influence continue to be 
felt in the SAED programme and other enterprises that have 
partnered the NYSC on SAED in different aspects ranging from 
training of Corps members, building of skills acquisition and 
entrepreneurship center, training the SAED trainers and other SAED 
officials in different countries that include China, training of the 
Corps members on how to develop a well researched business plan, 
among others. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                            Abubakar Yusuf Umar 
166 
 
Bibliography 
 
Bank of Industry Annual Report & Accounts 2016.   
https://wikipedia.org/bank-of-industy Retrieved March 05, 
2021 
Brig. Gen. S Ibrahim, “Selected Speeches and Strides of 18th NYSC 
Director-General” National Youth Service Corps, 2020 
Brigadier Shuaibu, DG, “How We are Rebuilding NYSC for Youth 
Empowerment, Revenue Generation”, Economic Confidential, 
May 17, 2020 
British American Tobacco Nigeria Foundation, www.batnf.com/ 
Retrieved 05/03/2021 
CBN,  “list  of  Financial  Institutions:  Commercial  Banks”  Abuja:  
Central  Bank  of  Nigeria. www.wikipedia.org/wiki/Access_ 
bank_plc Retrieved 5th March, 2021 
Core Reporters, “NYSC Partners Private Sectors on Skill      Acquisition” 
www.corereporters.com.ng/nysc-partners-private-sectors-on-
skills-acquisition/,  Retrieved  on, March 05, 2021 
Deeborm MB. Tambari and Daerego I. Taylor, “The Influence of 
National Youth Service Corps Enterpreneurship, Skills 
Acquisition Programmes on Youth Empowerment In Rivers 
State” International Journals of Humanities, Social Sciences 
and Education (IJHSSE), Volume 7, Issue 6, June 2020 
Fizcos, Corps Members Creating Wealth.. www.fizcos.com/ 
nyscsaed/nyscsaed.html, Retrieved: 05 May, 2021 
https://Byjus.com/commerce/concepts-private-public-enterprises/ 
Retrieved 05 March, 2021 
International  Labour  Organisation:  “The  Director-General,  Nigeria  
National  Youth  Service Corps National Youth Service Corps 
(NYSC) Visit ILO Country Office Abuja” www.ilo.org/africa 
/about-about-us/offices/abuja/WCMS Retrieved 03 March, 
2021 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Skills Acquisition Programmes and Igbo Youth Empowerment in Nigeria 
167 
 
Muhammad Sani Yahaya, Civil Servant, 45years, Interviewed at his 
residence opposite NYSC Headquarter, Kinsasha Kaduna, 
14/02/2021. 
“NYSC Members WIn N4million in Unity Bank Challenge” This Day 
Newspaper, February 11, 2021, 
www.thisdaylive.com/index.php/ 2021/02/11/nysc-members-
win-n4m-in-unity-bank-challe nge/ Retrieved 05 March,2021 
Oladeji O. Fatoki “The Skills Acquisition Programme and Youth 
Empowerment in Ondo State of Nigeria:   An   Empirical   
Study”,   Global   Journal   of   Human   Social   Science:   A   Arts   
& Humanities-Psychology, Vol. 19, Issue 6, Version 1.0, 2019. Pp 
109. Overview of Unity Bank Plc, https://Wikipedia.org. March 
05, 2021 
Padgett,  John  F.  etal.  “Organizational  Invention  and  Elite 
Transformation:  The  Birth  of Partnership Systems in 
Renaissance Florence” American Journal of Sociology, Vol. 111, 
No. 5, 2006 
Sealpit Engineering and Consulting Services, https://sealpitservices. 
com/nysc-saed-partnership/,retrieved 05 May, 2021. 
Schoolville:      “Partners      with      National      Youth      Service      
Corps      on      SAED”, www.schoolville.co,/updates/schoolvill-
partner-with-nysc Retrieved 05 March, 2021 
Usman IS. Waziri and Abdullahi A. Babayo, “Students Participation in 
Interpreneurship Skills acquisition   Programmes   in   
Adamawa   State   Polytechnic   Yola,   Nigeria”,   Biodiversity 
International Journal, Med Crave Research gate, Volume 2, 
Issue 2,  2018 
World  Stage  Group,  “NYSC  Members  Win  Big  in  Unity  Bank  
Corpreneurship  Challenge” www.worldstagegroup.com/nysc-
members-win-big-in-unity-bank-corpreneurship-challenge/ 
Retrieved 05 May, 2021 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                            Abubakar Yusuf Umar 
168 
 
Yusuf,  A.  Umar,  “An  Assessment  of  the  Training  Modules  and  
Curriculum  of  SAED” Unpublished Paper, Kaduna State 
University, Kaduna, 2021 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Strengthening NYSC and Private Sector Partnership on Skills Acquisition... 
169 
 
 88 88    
    Strengthening NYSC and Private Sector Partnership 
on Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship 
Development 
 
 
Jibunor Udoka Victor 
 
 
Introduction 
Skills acquisition entails the manifestation of ideas and knowledge 
through training which is aimed at developing the spirit of 
entrepreneurship in an individual needed for meaningful development. 
Entrepreneurship is viewed as an opportunity for young individuals or 
group to attain economic empowerment and self development which 
will enable them to contribute to the socio-economic development of a 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                  Jibunor Udoka Victor 
170 
nation.1These initiatives are aimed at re-engineering the youth’s 
energies and potentials in a bid to reduce unemployment, poverty and 
criminality amongst youth, therefore making them more productive.  
Ogundowolo, opined that the aim of skill acquisition programme is a 
means of empowering the youth, which prepares and equip them with 
appropriate skills that are beneficial to their future2. Similarly, 
Chikamnayo, averred that self-employment is harnessed by training 
and equipping youths with financial support and asset to develop their 
businesses. He added that, entrepreneurship training is also aimed at 
empowering people to improve their lives, strengthening their skills, 
and creating jobs thus promoting peace and security3 .  
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) was established through 
decree N0 24 of 22 nd May 1973 as a post-civil war strategy to foster 
unity and peace amongst Nigerians youths. This scheme is viewed as a 
pioneer youth organization programme in Nigeria. The scheme tends to 
mobiliseon average about 300,000 graduates annually4 . As a product of 
the post-civil war, the scheme is viewed as a strong incentive for 
nation-building and sustained peace and development. 5 The scheme 
focuses on youth development and national integration by according 
high priority to programmesdesigned toeducate and train young 
individuals in various skills to stimulate and inculcate a healthy 
attitude towards self-employment and sustainability. 
                                                           1E.K Ogundowolo “Philosophy of Education and Education for self-reliance’”. 
Apaper presented at the second departmental conference on philosophy of 
Education. O.A.U. Ile-Ife. (1998) p.7 2Ogundowolo “Philosophy of education..” p.7 3E. Chikamnayo, The role of NEVT programme for improving skill acquisition for 
youth empowerment in Nigeria. Okene Vocational Educational Journal 1(1) 94. 
(2013). P.67 4 S. Edeh“NYSC Mobilizes 300,00 graduates annually,” Vanguard News, April 26, 
2017. Retrieved from: www.vanguardngr.com/2017/nysc-mobilizes-300000-
graduates-annually-dg/ , (2017) 5 S.Micheal. “Youth service as a strong policy working paper.”St Lois: Washington 
University, Center for development,(2001a).: p. 12 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Strengthening NYSC and Private Sector Partnership on Skills Acquisition... 
171 
 
Some of the core objectives of the scheme includes; to inculcate 
discipline in Nigerian Youths by instilling in them  
• a tradition of industry at work, and of patriotic and loyal 
service to Nigeria in any situation they may find themselves; 
• to enable Nigerian youths acquire the spirit of self-reliance 
by encouraging them to develop skills for self-employment; 
to develop common ties among the Nigeria youths and 
promote national unity and integration;  
• to contribute to the accelerated growth of the national 
economy to mention a few. In line with some of these core 
objectives of the NYSC, entrepreneurship development was 
introduced by the management of the NYSC through the 
partnership with the public and private sector to instill in 
the youths a spirit of self-reliance in a bid to reduce 
unemployment amongst Nigerian graduates. 
 
History of Entrepreneurship in NYSC 
The history of entrepreneurship training in NYSC dates back to the 
commencement of the scheme. The mandate of the scheme towards 
youth empowerment is in Section I, sub-section 3(d) of the NYSC Act. 
The NYSC is a mandatory one-year national service programme for all 
Nigeria Graduates (Degree and HND graduates) local and international, 
ages between 18 – 30 years, with the exemption of those above the age 
limit and those who have served in the military, police force and other 
security agencies or has been confered the national honours.6 The 
prospective corps members are mobilised and deployed to states other 
than their states of origin. 
 
 
                                                           6 NYSC “National Youth Service Corps Decree No. 51 of 1993. Abuja: National 
Youth Service Corps Service,” Nigeria. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                  Jibunor Udoka Victor 
172 
The programme begins with the mobilization of eligible youth 
participants, followed by a three weeksorientation course and then 
posted for the primary assignment to various public and private 
organisation in their state of deployment.7During the orientation camp 
exercise, corps members are meant to undergo physical training, drills, 
lectures on the people and tradition of the host state, professional 
lectures for Corps health personnel, lawyers, teachers, social 
activities,and skills acquisition training among other activities 
 
Eberly d Gal, averred that the expected outcome of youth-targeted 
programmes like NYSCincludes improvement in youth 
competence;skills (both soft and technical); and social capital 
development.8. Similarly, Raimi and Alao opined that the scheme 
contributes to the youth’s entrepreneurship development through 
orientation programmes including deployment and utilisation of youth 
capabilities for national interest and economic development.9 
 
The NYSC mobilizes about 300,000 graduates yearly after which they 
go into the labour market that has no jobs to offer these graduates 
owing to the high rate of unemployment. The story is so disturbing as 
Nigeria stands at 33.30% in the fourth quarter of 2020 when compared 
to 27.10 % in the second quarter of 2020.10Okafor opined that youth 
unemployment tends to sabotage democratic practices as it posesa 
serious threat owing to its direct correlation to an increase in criminal 
                                                           7 NYSC, 2012 8D.J. Eberly, and R. Gal, “A role for young people in building post-conflict civil 
society,”International Journal of NOT-for-prifit Law,Vol 9(4), (2007): pp. 73-83 9 L. Raimi, and O. Alao, “Evaluaation of the economic (cost and benefit) of National 
Youth Service Corps for sustainable development in Nigeria,” Humanomics , Vol. 
27(4), 270-281 10Trading Economics,. Retrieved from: 
https://tradingeconomics.com/nigeria/unemployment-rate2020 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Strengthening NYSC and Private Sector Partnership on Skills Acquisition... 
173 
 
activities11. The NSYC in collaboration with the private sector 
developed an initiative to tackle the high unemployment rate in the 
country by establishing the SAED programme that will help graduates 
become self-reliant and wealth creators rather than depending on 
white-collar jobs.  
 
NYSC and Private Partnership on SAED 
The NYSC has the vision to galvanize the potentials of Nigerian youths 
to enhance their living standard by eliminating unemployment and 
promoting national development. In the discharge of its mandate, the 
NYSC has entered into collaboration with the private sector to attract 
training and funding for its SAED in Nigeria. In line with this, General 
Electric (GE) on March 8, 2018, announced its partnership with the 
NYSC to help empower the Corps members in laudable 
entrepreneurship skills12. This partnership will witness thousands of 
Corps members receive entrepreneurship training tagged Start and 
Improve Your Business (SIYB) based on International Labour 
Organization’s curriculum.  
The Managing Director of the company, Mohammed Mijindadi stated 
that this initiative is one of several ways GE is supporting skills 
development in Nigeria. He explained that the program works on train 
the trainer approach, stressing that NYSC personnel and facilitators are 
trained utilizing an international curriculum bench mark against the 
standard used globally. This partnership will expose the Corp members 
to a practical business management training programme aimed at 
starting and improving small businesses, he added. 
                                                           11O. Chukwuemeka and J.K. Ani“ The National Youth Service Corps Programme and 
Growing Security Threat In Nigeria”. Africa’s Public Service Delivery and 
Performance Review, 2(2).(2014) pp: 12-24 12GE “Partner NYSC on Youth Empowerment” Vanguard, March 8, 2018. Retrieved 
From: https://www.vanguardngr.com/2018/03/ge-partners-nysc-youth-
employment 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                  Jibunor Udoka Victor 
174 
Similarly, the Unity Bank, NYSC SAED partnership to promote youth 
enterprise has seen some Corps members benefitted enormously from 
this partnership. For instance, a medical Corps member at the Lagos 
state NYSC orientation camp in Lagos was among 6 corps members in 
the state and Abuja that won grants for successfully pitching their 
business idea to Unity Bank Corpreneurship Challenge. This 
partnership between the Unity Bank and the NYSC on SAED is geared at 
promoting the entrepreneurship spirit of the Nigerian youths. 
Corpreneurship Challenge derived from the word “Corper” and 
“Entrepreneurship” is an entrepreneurship initiative aimed at 
encouraging entrepreneurship capabilities of the Corps members 
during their mandatory one-year national service.13  
A judge at the business pitch, Abiodun Folawiyo CEO of Shoe Speed 
Interglobal Service Limited Opined that unemployment is not spiritual 
or natural disaster but rather a manmade problem that can be resolved 
by tackling the root cause. He stated that harnessing the 
entrepreneurship skills of young people is essential in mitigating youth 
unemployment. 
In the same vein, NYSC collaboration with NITDA in the private sector, 
has offered to trained corps members in digital literacy as a form of 
empowerment. This partnership further created a subsidized scheme 
for the acquisition of computers by corps members to enable them 
start up businesses in the It Sector. Besides, qualified and interested 
corps members were deployed to schools in support of digital literacy 
                                                           13A. Segun, “Unity Bank, NYSC SAED Partnership to Promote Youth Enterprise,” 
Business Day, November 25, 2019. Retrieved from: 
https://businessday.ng/uncategorized/article/unity-bank-nysc-saed-partnership-
to=promote-youth-enterprise/ 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Strengthening NYSC and Private Sector Partnership on Skills Acquisition... 
175 
 
education. The partnership is geared towards improving digital literacy 
amongst the youth and encourages digital job creation14 . 
Similarly, The Sealpit Engineering and Consulting Service has a 
collaboration with the NYSC to assist in entrepreneurship 
development. The partnership has a primary goal to promote 
entrepreneurship and self-reliance amongst Corp members. The 
programme is designed to be implemented during the corps members 
orientation course period. The SAED programme in synergy with 
Sealpit service has a target to setup 20,000 sustainable enterprises 
annually with a minimum of 150,000 corps members to be 
productively engaged. Sealpit Services has boosted the SAED program 
in areas of soft skills engineering training, development, and helping 
future leaders to be more productive15. The NYSC partnership with the 
private sector on SAED is very robust and has prospects for expansion 
 
Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development 
The Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) is a 
recent programme deployed by the Federal Government of Nigeria 
through the NYSC as a pragmatic response to youth unemployment. 
The programme is directed at young individuals who are corps 
members undergoing their one-year compulsory national service. The 
SAED programme’s thrust is to see corps member become wealth 
creator and employers of labour. In March, 2012, the NYSC launched 
the SAED programme nationwide to orientate the youths about the 
need to take alternative career paths by developing requisite skills and 
                                                           14NITDA, “Nigeria ICT Innovation and Entrepreneurship Vision,”. Retrieved From 
http://www.greenenergyinvestment.com.ng/sites/default/files/documents/Nigeri
a%20!CT%@)and%20Entrepreneurship%20Vision.pdf (2018) 15SPECS, “SealpitSevice NYSC SAED Partnership’”.(2019.) Retrieved from: 
https://sealpitservices.com/nysc-saed-partnership 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                  Jibunor Udoka Victor 
176 
resources necessary for successful entrepreneurship instead of 
continually seeking white collar job which are highly limited16.  
The SAED as a department in NYSC is headed  by a Director General and 
it’s made up of three divisions namely Programme, Partnership and 
Empowerment Division. These divisions are tasked with the following 
responsibilities; Sensitizing and mobilizing 200,000 young graduates 
for skill acquisition training annually; Facilitating the training and 
mentoring of 100,000 young graduates in skill acquisition and 
entrepreneurship development for self reliance annually; Promote 
public-private partnership for entrepreneurship development and self-
reliance amongst Nigerian youths; Promote documentation and sharing 
of best practices on youth empowerment in Nigeria; Sensitization and 
mobilization of corps members for enrolment into the skill acquisition 
and entrepreneurship development program; Development of a 
standard curriculum for the in-camp skill acquisition exercise; 
Identification of organizations at state level to provide training and 
mentoring in specific skill sets; Attachment of the corps members to the 
various organizations for skill acquisition and entrepreneurship 
development; On-going monitoring and supervision of trainee corps 
members; and Facilitate access to available funding opportunities. 
 
The SAED programmeemphasizes twelve vocational skill sets which 
include Agrio-allied sector, Tourism and culture, Construction, 
Information and Communication Technology, Education sector. This 
programme is delivered in phases. During the orientation course 
exercise, corps members are expected to engage in the SAED 
programme for two weeks. These Corps members are expected to 
                                                           16A. Aja-Okorie, and E. Adali“Achieving Youth Empowerment through 
Repositioning Entreprenuership Education in Nigeriaa Universities: Problems and 
Prospects. European Scientific Journal, 3(9):(2013).  2-8. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Strengthening NYSC and Private Sector Partnership on Skills Acquisition... 
177 
 
continue the SAED programme after the three-week orientation course 
as post-camp training.17 
 
Achievements of the NYSC-SAED Programme 
According to Faloye and Olatunji, the SAED programme stimulates 
Nigerian youths towards entrepreneurship development. They added 
that the programme also creates an avenue for the enhancement of the 
partnership between the public and private sector for skill-based 
development of Nigerian youths and graduates in order to reduce the 
unemployment rate.18 Similarly, the SAED programme supports the 
Federal Government's effort for economic transformation through 
entrepreneurship development and encouragement of self reliance 
amongst the youth. For instance, Utowen pointed out that at the end of 
the 2012 Batch B orientation course, 45,000 corps members received 
training on various skill sets under the SAED programme19. Out of these 
trainees, 5,404 corps members received agro-allied skill training, 5,509 
corps members were trained on food processing and preservation, 
8,035 corps members received culture and tourism-related skill 
training, 5,062 corps members engaged in cosmetology training, 8,119 
corps members were trained on Information and communication 
technology, 2,885 corps members received training on power and 
energy while 2,672 corps members received environmental 
management training.  
                                                           17O. Adewusi, and B. Adisa “The Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship 
Development Programme among Corps Members in Ibadan, Nigeria. 
Zaria”.Sociological Journal, 5(1): ( 2018)248-260 18D.O. Faloye, and D.O. Olabode, ‘Entrepreneurship Education and Self-
employment Intentions among Fresh Graduates in Nigeria’ .Journal of Economics 
and Sustainable Development,9(12), (2018): 146-158 19E. Utomwen, ‘Tackling NYSC’s Security Challenge’ Retrieved 1st May, 2014 
fromhttp://www.pmnewsnigeria.com/2012/12/10/tackling-nyscs-security-
challenge/. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                  Jibunor Udoka Victor 
178 
In 2015 during an interview with the NYSC Director of SAED, Mrs. Mary 
Dan Abia, she averred that NYSC was initially established with the focus 
on unity and national integration. However, it became imperative to 
address the 7th objective that seeks to inculcate the spirit of self-
reliance in young graduates. This is in response to the glaring 
unemployment rate looming currently20. She pointed out that at the 
end of 2013, through the SAED programme, 410,000 corps members 
received training on skills acquisition and entrepreneurship. In 2015 
Batch A, she added, 500,000 corps members were exposed to the 
message of skill acquisition and becoming entrepreneurs.  
The scheme went into close collaboration with international and 
national organizations to assist in setting up the department and bring 
it up to speed. She stated out that 1600 corps members have CAC 
registered businesses while pointing out that to some extent the 
programme has eliminated the fear of corps members finishing service 
and waiting for jobs. Similarly, Deebom and Dearego, stated that in 
2014, about 159,732 corps members successfully completed the NYSC-
SAED programme.21 These trainees comprises of 69,904 females and 
89,828 males. In the same vein, this program has sensitized 971,272 
Corp members amongst which 476,879 Corp members completed the 
training. 7000 Corps members became business owners as a result of 
this initiative.22 
                                                           20Caleb Ayansina, 2015. “We Making 500,000 youth Corps Members Their own 
Men ,” Vanguard, august 2, 2015. Retrieved from: 
www.vanguardngr.com/2015/08/we-are-making-500000-youth-corps-members-
their-own-men-danabia-nysc-chief/ 21Deebom, MtormaBariTamBari and Daerego, Ilomabo Taylor, “The Influence  of 
National Youth Service Corps Entrepreneurship Skill Acquisition Programmes on 
Youth Empowerment in Rivers State,”. International Journal of Humanities Social 
Sciences and Education (IJHSSE). Vol. 7, issue 6, (2020) pp 146-155. 22Webmaster. “7000-corps Members establish Thriving Business Through SAED.” 
October 18th, 2017. Dailytrust, https://dailytrust.com/7000-corps-members-
establish-thriving-business-through-saed 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Strengthening NYSC and Private Sector Partnership on Skills Acquisition... 
179 
 
In consolidation of the achievements of SAED programme, in 2018,the 
NYSC through the Director of SEAD Department, Mr Nuhu Kwaghe who 
led the NYSC-SAED delegation to the Country Director of the 
International Labour Organization (ILO), Abuja country office, Mr. 
Dennis Zulu. Mr. Kwaghe appreciated the effort of ILO in their support 
to NYSC through the SAED programme. Receiving the delegates, the ILO 
country Director Mr Zulu, stated that the ILO will continue to support 
and invest in SAED programme as it is of strategic importance to 
Nigerian Youths. He opined that the ILO will continue to work with the 
NYSC through the SAED programme to enhance the capacity of the 
department in a bid to create a lasting impact on the youths.23  
The NYSC has partnered with several companies and training outfits 
especially in the private sector across the country to obtain and provide 
the best quality of service in terms of rates, courses, live training 
programs developed by sponsors,  geared at independent sustenance 
and business management understanding.24  
In line with this, in 2020, the Director of SAED programme, Hilary 
Nasamu averred that despite the shortcoming of the 2020 edition of 
SAED programme, participant stakeholder has reiterated their 
commitment to providing the necessary support for the programme25. 
He listed some collaboration on the SAED programme to include NYSC-
BOI partnership, NYSC-Union Bank partnership, NYSC-BATNF 
partnership, NYSC-EDC partnership and NYSC-NIRSAL MFB 
collaboration to mention a few. He added that there is a need for NYSC 
to begin re-energizing the involvement of the National Directorate of 
                                                           23ILO, “NYSC Seeks ILO’s Assistance to Consolidate Achievement,” International 
Labour Organization, July 12, 2018. Retrieved from: www.ilo.org/arfica/about-
us/offices/abuja/WCMS_634393/land--en/index.htm 
24NYSC,.The Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) 
Programme.Retreived from nysclagos.com/saed.php2017 25Friday, NYSC Lament.2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                  Jibunor Udoka Victor 
180 
Employment and the Small and Medium Scale Enterprises 
Development Agency of Nigeria. 
The participants of SAED contributed significantly to the fight against 
COVID-19 in Nigeria. For instance, in an interview with the NYSC 
Kaduna State coordinator, Mallam Isa Wana, he pointed that Corps 
members of the SAED Department, produced and donated 10,000 face 
masks to the Kaduna State Government through the office of the 
Secretary to State Government26. He showed some of the products by 
the corps members like liquid soaps, hand sanitizers and other 
disinfectants which were distributed to the various communities in the 
state, while carrying out COVID-19 sensitization campaign.   
Similarly, in an NYSC venture (garment factory) located in Minna, Niger 
State, the Corps members produced and donated 1000 face masks, to 
the Niger State Government. In the same vein, NYSC Secretariat in Ogun 
state donated 300 pieces of 600 ml liquid soap, 636 pieces of 100 ml 
hand sanitizers and 1126 pieces of face masks27. Another, corps 
member in Ogun state produced and donated 200 high-quality face 
masks to the state government28.  
 
Challenges OF NYSC-SAED Programme 
Despite the milestone achieved by the NYSC-SAED programme, there 
have been several challenges which have mitigated the efforts of the 
department in discharging its functions. These are as follows; 
 
 
                                                           26Wana Isa, (Kaduna NYSC State Coordinator). Jibunor Victor, Kaduna State NYSC 
Seratariete, March 1, 2021. 
27UrielTomori and Isa Gagarawa.“COVID-19: As NYSC Community Engagement 
Boost Nigeria’s Response.” Economic Confidential, April 30, 2020. 
https://economicconfidential.com/2020/04/nysc-community-engagement-boosts-
nigeria/ 
28Emmanuel Igba. “Government Awards Face Mask Contract to Corps Member.” 
2020 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Strengthening NYSC and Private Sector Partnership on Skills Acquisition... 
181 
 
SAED Training Duration 
The NYSC-SAED programme runs for two weeks during the orientation 
course after which  the corps member is encouraged to continue with 
the post camp training with the external trainers, regulated by the 
NYSC. There are arguments that the time duration for these training is 
not sufficient for the corps members to acquire the necessary skills 
required to become employers of labour. However, this is not the case, 
SAED training in-camp was aimed at introducing corps members to 
skills which they will pursue after camp. For instance, Mrs. Dan Abia, 
stated that during the training of the corps members, 3 hours daily for 
the next 10 days is set aside for sensitizing the corps members and 
changing their mindset from job hunting through the introduction of 
experts to educate the corps members on the need to become 
entrepreneurs.   
 
Funding 
The issue of funding was a major challenge for the SAED programme, 
however, there have been strategies put in place to ensure SAED 
programmes and beneficiaries locate the funding for the start-up of 
their businesses. For instance, in an interview with vanguard in 2015, 
the NYSC-SAED Director, Mrs Mary Dan Abia opined that the 
programme due to inadequate fund is unable to provide monetary 
support for its trained corps members. However, the problem has been 
tackled adding that after training the corps members and getting them 
to draft good business proposals, NYSC then links the trainees up with 
funding institutions like Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Bank of 
Industry (BOI) amongst others who can help to fund these ideas. 
 
Way to Mitigate the Challenges of SAED 
There are several measures proposed to help mitigate some of the 
challenges experienced by the SAED programme. They include but not 
limited to: 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                  Jibunor Udoka Victor 
182 
Adequate funding of the SAED programme 
It is important to ensure improved funding of the SAED programme to 
ensure the target of alleviating unemployment is met. Private sector 
needs to adequately key into the objectives of SAED by providing 
mentorship and guidance to corps members especially during the 
service year. Adequate funding of the SAED programme will ensure 
financial empowerment for corps members that have successfully 
complete the training programme.  
Although, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN); Bank of Industry (BOI) 
and Bank of Agriculture (BOA) and other private bodies have been 
helping to provide funding there is need to expand the funding base to 
ensure that the SAED programme is expanded, efficient and 
sustainable.  
 
Strengthening the NYSC-Private Sector Partnership 
Strengthening the NYSC-Private sector partnership is a vital tool in 
ensuring the continuity of the SAED programme. The NYSC-SAED can 
expand its partnership with several private sector organisation to 
achieve the following:  
i. Internship 
The internship has been reported in previous studies to develop an 
individual’s professional attitude and strengthen personal 
character. The internship opportunities will help the corps 
members gain real-life experience and gain a competitive 
advantage thereby exposing them to a broad spectrum of 
opportunities. NYSC-SAED should provide a recommendation to a 
private organizations for Corp members that have successfully 
completed the SAED programme after their service year to join 
them on an internship training for a period of six months, in the 
field in which they have acquired various skills. This will ensure 
adequate monitoring of the trained corps members and will also 
ensure the skill acquired are properly harnessed, thus promoting 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Strengthening NYSC and Private Sector Partnership on Skills Acquisition... 
183 
 
the interest of corps members in participating in the SAED 
programme. 
 
ii. Need Assessment and Impact Evaluation 
NYSC and partners must continually conduct need assessment and 
impact evaluations, which are planning processes often used for the 
improvement of individuals, education/training. This will also help 
to identify appropriate interventions and solutions geared at 
improving the quality of the SAED programme.  
 
Establishment of Adequate Training Facilities 
Some training facilities have already been established in Gombe, Abuja, 
and Lagos, however, there is a need to expand these facilities to other 
states, considering that they have been very beneficial to corps 
members. This will ensure that the corps members receive the required 
training needed to start a sustainable business. It will also help ensure 
effective communication between the corps members and instructor 
thus create an avenue for close monitoring of the corps members by 
the SAED instructors. More so, an adequate training facility will also 
ensure the corps members acquire real-life experience which will give 
them competitive advantages when starting up their respective 
businesses.  
 
Training and Retraining of SAED Instructor 
With new technology and innovations discovered daily, retraining and 
development are essential for employees. As the saying goes 
“consistency is the mother of mastery”, there is a need to continually 
train and retrain instructors. This will help ensure that the instructors 
are remaining current with the modern trend in skill acquisition and 
entrepreneurship development processes. This will thus provide the 
SAED programme with invaluable benefit, help to boost the morale of 
instructors and also achieve the desired result of the programme. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                  Jibunor Udoka Victor 
184 
Transparency and Accountability 
Transparency refers to the substantive and administrative procedure 
by which an institution performs its function, whether itis documented, 
accessible, and open to public scrutiny. Needless to say that corruption 
of a major problem encountered in all sectors of Nigeria’s economy. 
There is a need for the NYSC management to properly checkmate the 
activities of the SAED trainers to ensure that corps members are given 
valuable and impactful training. In addition to that, proper 
documentation of the SAED activities should be pursued to enable the 
scheme have available records that will be useful for evaluation and 
periodic improvement on the progrrame. 
 
Conclusion 
The study highlights the importance of the Skills Acquisition and 
Entrepreneurship Development programme in ameliorating and 
mitigating the high rate of unemployment amongst the youth. The 
challenges of the SAED programme includes but not limited to poor 
fund, inadequate training facilities, misappropriation of funds, and 
duration of training amongst others. The study further sheds light on 
the need to strengthen NYSC SAED private sector partnership in a bid 
to encourage the effort already made by the program. Besides, the 
study also identified Adequate funding, training, and retraining of 
instructors, provision of adequate training facilities amongst others as 
the possible way of mitigating the challenges facing the SAED 
programme.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Strengthening NYSC and Private Sector Partnership on Skills Acquisition... 
185 
 
Bibliography 
 
Adams Segun, “Unity Bank, NYSC SAED Partnership to Promote Youth 
Enterprise,” Business Day, November 25, 2019. Retrieved from: 
https://businessday.ng/uncategorized/article/unity-bank-
nysc-saed-partnership-to=promote-youth-enterprise/ 
Adewusi, O., and Adisa, B., “The Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship 
Development Programme among Corps Members in Ibadan, 
Nigeria. Zaria.”Sociological Journal, 5(1): (2018) 248-260 
Aja-Okorie, A., and Adali, E. “Achieving Youth Empowerment through 
Repositioning Entreprenuership Education in Nigeria 
Universities: Problems and Prospects. European Scientific 
Journal, 3(9): (2013). 2-8. 
Ayansina Caleb, “We Making 500,000 youth Corps Members Their own 
Men,” Vanguard, (August 2, 2015). Retrieved from: 
www.vanguardngr.com/2015/08/we-are-making-500000-
youth-corps-members-their-own-men-danabia-nysc-chief/ 
Chikamnayo, E.“The role of NEVT programme for improving skill 
acquisition for youth empowerment in Nigeria.”Okene 
Vocational Educational Journal 1(1) (2013): 11-20 
Council on Foreign Relations. “The National Youth Service Corps: A 
Bridge to Nationalism in Nigeria”. New York: Council of Foreign 
Relations. (2017)https://www.cfr.org/blog/national-youth-
service-corps-bridge-nationalism-nigeria 
Eberly, D.J. and Gal, R. A role for young people in building post-conflict 
civil society, International Journal of NOT-for-profit Law, Vol. 9 
(4), (2007): pp. 73-83 
Edeh Susan,. “NYSC Mobilizes 300,00 graduates annually,” Vanguard 
News, April 26, 2017. Retrieved from: 
www.vanguardngr.com/2017/nysc-mobilizes-300000-
graduates-annually-dg/ 
Faloye, D.O. and Olabode, D.O. “Entrepreneurship Education and Self-
employment Intentions among Fresh Graduates in 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                  Jibunor Udoka Victor 
186 
Nigeria.”Journal of Economics and Sustainable 
Development,9(12): (2018): 146-158.  
GE Partner NYSC on Youth Empowerment Vanguard, March 8, 2018. 
Retrieved From: https://www.vanguardngr.com/2018/03/ge-
partners-nysc-youth-employment 
Igba Emmanuel. “Government Awards Face Mask Contract to Corps 
Member.” 2020 
ILO, 2018.“NYSC Seeks ILO’s Assistance to Consolidate Achievement,” 
International Labour Organization, July 12, 2018. Retrieved 
from: www.ilo.org/arfica/about-
us/offices/abuja/WCMS_634393/land--en/index.htm 
Katurak Yashim, “NYSC Seeks FG, Private Sector Support in Skill 
Training For Corps Members,”Sundiata Post, June 11, 2017. 
Retrieved from: https://sundiatapost.com/nysc-seeks-fg-
private-sector-support-in-skills-training-for-corps-members/ 
Micheal Sherraden.: Youth service as a strong policy working paper. St 
Lois: Washington University, Center for development, 1, 
(2001): pp 12-20 
Modern Apprentiship: “The way to work, The Report of the Modern 
Apprentiship Advisory Committee,” 2001. Retrieved from: 
https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apprentiship 
National Council on Education “64th Meeting of National Council on 
Education,” Retrived from: https:education.gov.ng/wp-
content/uploads/2019/11/64th –NCE-MEMO-TO-COUNCIL.pdf 
1999. 
NITDA, “Nigeria ICT Innovation and Entrepreneurship Vision,”.(2018) 
Retrieved From http://www.greenenergyinvestment.com.ng/ 
sites/default/files/documents/Nigeria%20!CT%@)and%20Ent
repreneurship%20Vision.pdf 
NYSC “Gombe Orientation Service Course Guide for: 2012 Batch ‘C’ 
Corps Members. Gombe: Press and Public Relations Unit, NYSC, 
2012) 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Strengthening NYSC and Private Sector Partnership on Skills Acquisition... 
187 
 
NYSC, The Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) 
Programme. Retrieved from nysclagos.com/saed.php (2017) 
NYSC.National Youth Service Corps Decree No. 51 of 1993. Abuja: 
National Youth Service Corps Service, Nigeria. (1993) 
Ogundowolo E.K “Philosophy of Education and Education for self-
reliance”. Apaper presented at the second departmental 
conference on the philosophy of Education. O.A.U. Ile-Ife. 
(1998) 
OkaforChukwuemeka and Ani John K. 2014: The National Youth Service 
Corps Programme and Growing Security Threat In Nigeria”. 
Africa’s Public Service Delivery and Performance Review, 2(2), 
(2014): 67-75 
Olokor Friday, “NYSC Lament Inadequate Funding of SAED Program,” 
Punch, (March 2, 2021). Retrieved from: 
https//punchng.com/nysc-lament-inadequate-funding-of-saed-
programme 
Osimibi, T.S.,.”Macro-economic policies and poor growth in Nigeria. A 
paper presented at the economic research conference on 
inequality, poverty, and human well-being health in Finland 
from (30th – 32 nd May, 2003). 
Raimi, L. and Alao, O.: Evaluation of the economic (cost and benefit) of 
National Youth Service Corps for sustainable development in 
Nigeria, Humanomics, Vol. 27(4), (2011): 270-281 
SPECS, 2019.“SealpitSeviceNYSC SAED Partnership’”. Retrieved from: 
https://sealpitservices.com/nysc-saed-partnership 
TamBari, Deebom MtormaBari and Daerego, Ilomabo Taylor, “The 
Influence of National Youth Service Corps Entrepreneurship 
Skill Acquisition Programmes on Youth Empowerment in 
Rivers State”. International Journal of Humanities Social 
Sciences and Education (IJHSSE). Vol. 7, issue 6, (2020) pp 146-
155 
Tomori Uriel and Isa Gagarawa“COVID-19: As NYSC Community 
Engagement Boost Nigeria’s Response.” Economic Confidential, 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                  Jibunor Udoka Victor 
188 
April 30, 2020. Retrieve from: 
https://economicconfidential.com/2020/04/nysc-community-
engagement-boosts-nigeria/ 
Utomwen, D. Tackling NYSC’s Security Challenge, Retrieved (May, 
2014) fromhttp://www.pmnewsnigeria.com/2012/12/10/ 
tackling-nyscs-security-challenge/.  
Webmaster. “7000-corps Members establish Thriving Business 
Through SAED.” October 18 th, (2017) Dailytrust, 
https://dailytrust.com/7000-corps-members-establish-
thriving-business-through-saed 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Skills Acquisition Programmes and Igbo Youth Empowerment in Nigeria 
189 
 
    99 99    
    NYSC Skills Acquisition Programmes and Igbo Youth 
Empowerment in Nigeria 
 
 
Orji Ifeanyi Boniface 
 
 
Introduction 
Over the past many years there was this notion/assumption in many 
quarters outside Igboland that the Igbo youths do not go to school 
because of their penchant for business and entrepreneurship. Though 
that may sound correct, but gone are those days. Nowadays, Igbo 
youths, though they may end up in doing business, ensure that they 
acquire tertiary education and various degrees which contribute to 
their empowerment before they venture into any line of business of 
their choice. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                  Orji Ifeanyi Boniface 
190 
 
Youth empowerment in many countries is geared towards equipping 
youths with skills that will enable them  to be self-employed and 
contribute to national development. The rate of unemployment among 
Nigerian youths and graduates is on the increase. High rates of crime 
and poverty are associated with high level of unemployment.1 The 
United Nations identies youths as individuals between the ages of 15 
and 24 while the Federal Government of Nigeria defines the youths as 
all young people of the ages between 18 and 35 years.2 The National 
Youth Service Corps (NYSC) on the other hand identifies the youths as 
all young people between the ages of 18 and 30 years. By this 
definition, the youths constitute some two-thirds of the country’s 
population making them the critical mass of the instrument of national 
development. Some statistics such as the Unemployment Survey 
Report3and National Bureau of Statistics observe that, as at 2018 the 
average Nigerian youth unemployment rate was an appalling 40.8%.4 
 
The Youth empowerment programmehas a multiplier effect on the 
national economy including boosting productivity, wealth creation, 
consumption and tax system. The rate of development in Nigeria 
depends largely on the productivity and creativity of the youths; since 
they constitute about 70% of Nigeria’s population. Nigeria cannot 
achieve desired development when the youths are idle and 
                                                           1Lawanson O. High Rate of Unemployment in Nigeria. The Consequence of Human 
Research Management. A Paper delivered in EU Society of Help, Rome, Italy. 2007, 
p.43 2ILO Publication.Youth Pathway to Decent Work (Defining Youths). ILO, Geneva. 
2005, p.78 3Unemployment Survey Report. Survey Report. Ministry of Labour and 
Productivity, Abuja. 2019, pp. 2-8 4National Bureau of Statistics.Social Statistics in Nigeria, Abuja; the NBS 
Publication. 2020 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Skills Acquisition Programmes and Igbo Youth Empowerment in Nigeria 
191 
 
unproductive. This is the basis for for their productive engagements of 
youths in skills acquisitions.5 
However, the Nigerian youths are faced with enormous challenges in 
their quest for active participation in national development, such issues 
include improper orientation of youths, weak institutional capacity, 
lack of social safety nets and disconnection between academic 
qualification and practical work process. The call, therefore, is to 
incorporate skills acquisition and programme. as a means of 
empowerment in order to ensure that youths have access to acquiring 
the necessary skills needed by the economy in the 21st century.6 It is on 
this premise that the NYSC rose up to the challenge by introducing Skill 
Acquisition and entrepreneurship programmes as a means of 
addressing the challenge of post-service unemployment as well as a 
means of wealth creation and empowerment. However, when General 
Ibrahim Shuaibu emerged as the Director General of NYSC, he moved 
the frontiers by ensuring that the skill acquisition programme is 
sustained and expanded in its scope of partnership and operation. This 
was to ensure youth corps members are adequately trained and 
empowered before they leave NYSC. 
Among the people who benefited immensely from this NYSC 
programme are the Igbo youths. For instance, in all the NYSC Camps in 
Igbo land just as it is across the country; there are several skills units 
which cut across various sectors of the economy ranging from agro-
allied, automobile, beautification, construction, cosmetology, culture 
and tourism, education, environment, films and photography, food 
                                                           5Salami C.G.E. Youth Unemployment in Nigeria: A Time for Creative Intention. 
International Journal of Business and Marketing Management, Vol. 11. No. 7, 72-
91 Retrieved from www. Journal Org/AJBM, 2013, p.14 6Uzochukwu N. Skill Acquisition Panacea to Nigeria’s Rising Unemployment: 16th 
Annual Public Lecture of the Chartered Institute of Personnel Management of 
Nigeria (CIPM), Lagos. 2013, p.18 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                  Orji Ifeanyi Boniface 
192 
 
processing/preservation, information and communication technology 
(ICT) and power and energy. The programme which is targeted at 
young graduates who are mobilized and deployed to states of the 
federation other than their states of origin. the yearly mandatory 
service had provided series of empowerment opportunities for Corps 
members and members of the host communities; especially the Igbo 
young graduates who get empowered before launching themselves into 
various businesses of their choice. The implementation of the 
programme has been replicated in the states and Local Government 
Areas by the scheme. The SAED training is designed to start at the 
orientation camp and continues during the post-camp period.7 
Since unemployment has become a major problem in Nigeria, and 
fundamentally, because the Nigeria educational system lacks the 
capacity and infrastructure to equip the students (youths) with 
appropriate skills for entrepreneurship, the NYSC having identified this 
yawning gap considers it necessary to address it. This research 
therefore, tried to examine whether the NYSC in its own bid to curb this 
unemployment crisis through its skill acquisition programme has been 
able to aid the financial independence, job provision drive and the 
business funding capacity of the Igbo graduates that have undergone 
training in the various skill acquisition programmes of the scheme 
 
Overview of Various Youth Empowerment Programmes in Nigeria 
All over the world, youths have been the target for support and 
strategies for deciphering the problems of unemployment and 
economic development. The creation of wealth and employment 
opportunities will lead to poverty alleviation as well as national 
development. Youth empowerment scheme has been defined as a 
capacity-building process thatsupport  vocational training and skills 
development of the towards ensuring that they becomes more 
                                                           7NYSC News. NYSC Skill Programme a Laudable Initiative. A Journal of the NYSC 
Directorate Headquarters: NYSC, Abuja. 2018 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Skills Acquisition Programmes and Igbo Youth Empowerment in Nigeria 
193 
 
productive in society.8 In a similar vein, youth empowerment is seen as 
a form of human development intervention that offers an opportunity 
for a wide range of vocational skills training for the youth population.9 
Youth empowerment is targeted at the training of young people by 
empowering them socially and economically.  It also refers to specific 
intervention in the educational pursuit and offer of a wide range of 
opportunities for initiating behavioral change in the youth population 
through the guidance and counseling programs aimed at putting them 
in the proper psychological frame of mind for several expected 
encounters ahead in life.  
 
In other words, youth empowerment isa process of inculcating into 
youths the spirit of transformation of ideas. It is a means of exposing 
the youths into skills or training that will make them productive.10 It 
encompasses different ways that youth can be exposed to different 
trades that may helpto engage in sustainable paid and self-
employment. Ventures Scholars have held the view that there is a 
positive relationship between youth empowerment and poverty 
alleviation on the one hand, and between youth empowerment and 
national development on the other hand. This is to say that the 
presence of human development and empowerment of youth corps 
members  as embarked by NYSC can alleviate poverty and create jobs, 
especially in developing countries like Nigeria.11 
 
                                                           8Amadi, O. B. & Abdullah, H. “Perception of Capacity Building among Youths 
Involved in Vocational Skills Development”.Journal of Social and Development 
Sciences. Vol. 3 No. 6, 2012, pp. 214-221. 9Kuti, Z. The Youth Empowerment Scheme of Hajiya Zainab Kure. 2006. Available: 
wwwYesngo.org/aboutyes/htm Retrieved on 17th January 2021.  10Jimba, D. I. Exigencies of Youth Empowerment for Sustainable Development in 
Nigeria.In Agwuama (Eds), the Contemporary Issues and the Challenges of 
Sustainable Development in the New Millennium: the Nigerian Experience. 2007. 11Hussaini, M. Poverty Alleviation Programs in Nigeria: Issues and challenges. 
International Journal of Development Research, Vol. 4, No. 3, 2014, pp. 717-720.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                  Orji Ifeanyi Boniface 
194 
 
The Nigerian government having realized this, decided to set up 
various empowerment programmes in the country. The skills 
acquisition programmes instituted in Nigeria over the years include the 
following: the Green Revolution Programme which was in response to 
the programme of Operation Feed the Nation 1976; the School-To-Land 
Programme and Skills Acquisition Programme of 1978; the Youth 
Employment and Vocational Skill Development Scheme of (NDE) in 
1986; The Small-Scale Industrial and Graduate Farmer’s Programme of 
(NDE) in 1988 and The National Open Apprenticeship Scheme of 
1988.12 Others included Youth Empowerment Scheme (YES) which 
basically deals with capacity acquisition skills, mandatory attachment, 
productivity improvement, credit delivery, technology development, 
and entrepreneurship development for self-help and economic growth. 
Theseprogrammes were initiated by the government to enhance 
employment opportunity FOR the people who are unemployed, 
towardS enhancing their source of livelihood and  raise their standard 
of living.  
Another empowerment scheme was the Rural Infrastructure 
Development Scheme (RIDS) which was setup by the Ibrahim 
Babangida regime to deal with the provision and the development of 
infrastructural needs most especially in the rural areas where majority 
of them are farmers and they lack the basic necessities of life. The 
government supports them in the areas of water supply system for 
irrigation farming, transport network to ease (rural and urban) 
movement of farm produce, rural energy and power support to 
enhance local business in the rural areas, and communication network 
for local and national development. This helped to reduce urban and 
rural migration among the unemployed youth moving to the cities for 
jobs and better living conditions.  
                                                           12 Douli, J.C. An Overview of Nigeria Economic Reform.Central Bank of Nigeria, 
Economic and Financial Review, Vol. 42, No. 4. 2012, pp. 870-901 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Skills Acquisition Programmes and Igbo Youth Empowerment in Nigeria 
195 
 
Social Welfare Service Scheme (SOWESS) as the name implies focuses 
on the provision of basic services such as quality primary/special 
education, primary healthcare services, establishment and 
maintenance of recreational centres, public awareness facilities, youth 
and student hostel development, environmental protection facilities, 
food security provisions, micro and macro credits delivery, rural 
telecommunications facilities, provision of mass transit, maintenance of 
culture, and strengthening the economic power of farmers at the grass 
root.  
On the other hand, Natural Resource Development and Conservation 
Scheme (NRDCS) is a scheme that seeks to promote participatory and 
sustainable development of the agricultural sector which was the major 
sources of income in the country, solid mineral resources development, 
harnessing of the conservation of land and space (beaches, reclaimed 
land, etc.) particularly for the convenient and effective utilisation by 
small-scale operators and the immediate community.13In effect, all 
these programmesas initiated by the Nigerian Government are focused 
on youth empowerment, rural infrastructure development, provision of 
social welfare services and natural resource development and 
conservation of land, which are all geared towards national and 
economic development with the youth empowerment as its core 
mandate. 
In recent years, in order to achieve the desired goals, different training 
programmes have been instituted by the Federal and State 
Governments to imbibe in the youths the culture of creativity and 
entrepreneurship. A good example is the “Youth Enterprise With 
Innovation” in Nigeria (YouWIN). The YouWIN Programme is in 
collaboration with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of 
                                                           13Ntiwunka, G. U. Level of Awareness of Developmental Projects by the Ministry of 
Women Affairs among Citizens of Ogun State. The International Journal of Science 
and Technology, Vol. 2, No. 6, 2014, p. 172. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                  Orji Ifeanyi Boniface 
196 
 
Communication and Technology (CT) and the Ministry of Youth and 
sports Development. The main objective of the programme is to 
generate jobs by encouraging and supporting aspiring entrepreneurial 
youths in Nigeria to develop and execute business ideas that will lead 
to job creation. This programme provides aspiring youths with a 
platform to display their business acumen, skills and aspirations to 
business leaders, investors and mentors in Nigeria. 
In 2012, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) set up a N200 billion Micro, 
Small and Medium Enterprise (MSMEs) Development fund, to provide 
cheap and long term financial resources for the development of the 
small and medium businesses in Nigeria.14 The NYSC Venture Prize 
Competition was introduced by the CBN to sensitise and create 
awareness among Nigerian graduate youths. It has awakened 
entrepreneurship expertise and orientates serving Corps members 
towards seeking alternative employment opportunities and in 
particularly self-employment, through provision of funds and making 
young people employers of labor themselves. Currently, there are 
various intervention programmes set up by the President Buhari 
administration and some of them are being coordinated by the Central 
Bank of Nigeria to positively engage the youths in economic 
development and national development. Some of the youths that had 
benefited from all the above mentioned programmes are Igbo youths. It 
is in consonance with the above that this chapter opts for the 
dimensions of financial independence; which may be the result of 
acquired relevant skills for enterprise formation, job provision, through 
which young people are self-employed over time and directly resolving 
the unemployment crisis in the country and boosting business funding 
capacity. It explains that the ingenuity in accessing funding 
                                                           14Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN).Statistical Bulletin. Vol. 15 .Abuja, CBN 
Publications. 2012. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Skills Acquisition Programmes and Igbo Youth Empowerment in Nigeria 
197 
 
opportunities in order to grow the business overtime is very 
complimentary to skill acquisition, just as NYSC is doing. 
 
The Community Development Service (CDS) 
The NYSC CDS is carried out by corps members alongside the primary 
assignment during service year. this is a platform for corps members to 
identify the felt needs of their hosting communities and mobilise the 
people to provide them. The CDS activities are done either by a group 
or individual corps member. For this discourse, emphasis will be more 
on the compulsory group (year round) CDS. 
In identifying with the current national objectives, the NYSC CDS has 
ventured into agriculture, thus several Corps members together who 
specialize in agriculture and allied disciplines posted within the same 
locality to work on rotational schedules on the farms. Furthermore, the 
idea is to engage corps members to undertake a year round CDS in 
addition to their primary assignment, at least executing one community 
development project in their host community, in groups. After the 
consultation with the host community people. Some suggested projects 
under the Year Round Community Development programmes are as 
follows:  
i.  Mass literacy: Each One Teaches One or Fund the Teaching One.  
ii.  Technologies/scientific inventions and fabrications.  
iii.  Organising host community to take more interest in indigenous 
art, drama and music, dances as well as agricultural skills.  
iv.  Public health education, immunisation and health care delivery, 
preventive and curative horticulture, tree planting, and 
landscaping/environmental beautification.  
It is imperative to emphatically state at this juncture that during the 
current Director General’s leadership of NYSC Brig. Gen Ibrahim, has 
sustained and expanded the youth empowerment and 
entrepreneurship ventures, some of which include; tailoring, printing, 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                  Orji Ifeanyi Boniface 
198 
 
food processing and preservation of products from cottage industries, 
using local raw materials and corps manpower resources. 
 
The Youth Skill Acquisition/Empowerment Programme 
A skill is seen as the ability to do something well, usually gained 
through training or experience.15Skill Acquisition involves the 
development of a new skill, practice or a way of doing things usually 
gained through training or experience. It has been emphasised that for 
the third world countries especially Nigeria to be economically self-
reliant, there is need for diversification of the economy and as well as 
encourage the youths to embrace self-employment through 
appropriate favorable policy environment that would facilitate skills 
acquisition, entrepreneurship and self-reliance. 
The importance of Skill Acquisition cannot be over-emphasised 
because its significance to national development is multi-dimensional. 
Some areas of benefits are: reduction of hunger and poverty; reduction 
or elimination of joblessness; reduction of crime through effective 
engagement of youths.16 In discussing entrepreneurship Emphasis is 
always placed on the development of small scale enterprises which will 
lead to self-employment over and above medium and large scale 
enterprises. This is because of the small capital requirement of the 
small scale or micro-enterprises is within the reach of the youths. 
While reiterating this, Omen opined that: 
“with a high population and numerous universities in 
Nigeria turning out thousands of graduates every year 
there is no ready market to employ them, we must rely 
                                                           15Encarta Dictionary.Youth Empowerment, Microsoft. 2009 16 Diigbo, G. The Importance of Skills Acquisition. A Paper presented at the First 
National Conference on Human Education and National Development, organized 
by the Department of Curriculum University of Lagos. 2009 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Skills Acquisition Programmes and Igbo Youth Empowerment in Nigeria 
199 
 
on the principle of self-development; young graduates 
and non-graduates should, therefore embrace skills”.17 
Furthermore, the Nigerian former President Goodluck Jonathan said 
that one of the economic imperatives of today was the need to 
adequately equip young graduates with the necessary skills to boost 
self-reliance which can serve as catalysts to industrial development.18It 
was as a result of his commitment to the above, that NYSC took the 
initiative to establish to establish the skill acquisition and 
entrepreneurship programme (SAED) to give leveraging on 
opportunities to the teeming youths to set up micro industries under 
the National Enterprise Development Programme (NEDEP).  
Skill acquisition is a critical tool for mass job creation in Nigeria 
because of the challenges posed by unemployment, and no Government 
acting alone can mitigate the effect. This explains why there was the 
need for all tiers of Government to pay serious attention to job creation 
through the establishment of skill acquisition centres which ensures 
that youths have access to acquiring the critical skill needed by the 
economy in the 21st century.19The measure of skill acquisition is felt by 
the youth Corps members themselves, in terms of actual benefit they 
have derived from being part of various forum on skills acquisition 
programs during their service years. 
Youth empowerment is an attitudinal, structural and cultural process 
whereby young people gain ability, authority and activity to make 
decision and implement change in their own lives and the lives of other 
people including adults.20 Youth’s empowerment means creating and 
                                                           17Omene.NYSC News 2012. 18President Goodluck Jonathan Address. NYSC News 2014. 19Wogu C.The Job Creator Newsletter of the National Directorate of 
Employment.Wogu Commission Skill Centre Vol.10, No. 2, 2013. 20Valrus J. and Fletcher A. Guide to Social Change led by and with Young People. 
The Free Child Project. 2006. Retrieved online from 
http://en.wikipedia.org.wiki/youth empowerment 15/03/2020. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                  Orji Ifeanyi Boniface 
200 
 
supporting the enabling conditions under which young people can act 
on their own behalf and on their own terms rather than at the direction 
of others.21  
Indeed, youth empowerment could be said to mean, the youths being 
able to eat when they are hungry, being able to meet their basic needs, 
have shelter over their heads, ability to speak out on issues of concern 
to them in the society and not being deprived in any ramification in life 
and lack of ability to cater for their health needs whenever necessary. 
Another measure of youth empowerment is the job provision capacity 
of youths, which is indicated by their drive to work independently and 
employ other youths to work for them in their businesses. Finally, 
business funding ability measures the ease of seeking or accessing 
funds to grow the businesses run by these young people in the country. 
Such funding bodies include NYSC partners like the Central Bank of 
Nigeria (CBN) Bank of Industry (BOI) etc. 
 
NYSC and Igbo Youth Empowerment 
There is no doubt that the NYSC scheme provides the perfect incubator 
to prepare the youths for the skill acquisition and entrepreneurial 
development. Nigeria is ranked as the 30thlargest economy in the world 
in terms of nominal GDP, and the 23rd-largest in terms of purchasing 
power parity, with a population of about 190 million people.22 Of the 
entire Nigerian population, the economically active and working 
population is between the 15-64 years of age bracket, which stood at 
111.1million.23 The population of the youths which is between ages 15-
34years who are unemployed stood at roughly 10.96million and the 
number of those who are underemployed is approximately 
                                                           21 Fletcher, A. Guide to Students as Partners in Social Change. The Free Child 
Project. 2005. Retrieved online from http://en.wikipedia.org.wiki/youth 
empowerment 15/03/2020. 22 National Bureau of Statistics. “Statistics News: Labor Force Statistics”. Abuja: The 
NBS. 2017. 23National Bureau of Statistics 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Skills Acquisition Programmes and Igbo Youth Empowerment in Nigeria 
201 
 
11.68million. However, the unemployment rate for the youth as at 3rd 
quarter of 2017 stood at 53.3%. It also indicated that the under 
employment rate for the youth as at 3rd quarter of 2017 stood at 
56.5%. 24 
It is in recognition of these realities that the NYSC set up the Skill 
Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) programme as 
a pragmatic response to the youth unemployment challenge with a 
mission to create a platform that will facilitate access of young 
graduates to requisite skills and resources necessary for successful 
entrepreneurship as a means of enhancing national development. The 
programme has the ambitious vision of creating at least 20,000 
sustainable enterprises annually, and get a minimum of 150,000 corps 
members to be productively engaged, generating sustainable economic 
value through employment or entrepreneurship, annually, in these 
sectors. The data gotten from the NYSC SAED Department indicated 
that about 5,000 Igbo young graduates had benefited from the 
programme.25 The scheme in partnership with Bank of Industry had 
provided loans at a lower interest rate for some Igbo young graduates 
who have viable business proposals, and have the zeal to set up their 
own businesses to become employers of labour. 
Equally, as a strategic response to solving the plague of unemployment 
challenges in Nigeria, the International Labour Organisation (ILO), 
General Electric, NYSC and Cognity Advisory entered into a 
collaboration with the purpose of stimulating the growth of Micro 
Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in Nigeria through hands-on 
entrepreneurship trainings designed by the ILO known as Start and 
Improve Your Business (SIYB).26  The ILO intervention program (ILO-
SIYB) in Nigeria rides on the availability of huge population of youth 
                                                           24National Bureau of Statistics 25NYSC Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Department (SAED)NYSC National 
Directorate Headquarters. 2017 26 ILO Publication.Youth Pathway to Decent Work… 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                  Orji Ifeanyi Boniface 
202 
 
entrepreneurs who are mostly Corps members(including those of Igbo 
origin) as a means of reaching a sizable number of targeted 
entrepreneurs for the program. The ILO’s SIYB program which is a 
system of interrelated training packages and supporting materials for 
small-scale entrepreneurs to start and grow their businesses, had 
benefited another set of Igbo Corps members who are now doing well 
in their businesses.27  SIYB aims at increasing the viability of small and 
medium enterprises through sound management principles suitable for 
the environment of developing countries. It has also been applauded by 
both the government and the Igbo beneficiaries who are now 
dominating the business space with the experience they gained from 
the programme.28 
Albeit, the NYSC enlists at least 250,000 graduates each year, to gain 
training experience while serving the nation in locations that are new 
to them. The program has however been helpful to some Igbo 
entrepreneurs who having recognized the potentials of the Corps 
members serving in their vicinity, decided to have some of them do 
their primary assignments in their firms. This had been of great help to 
the growth and development of those businesses until posting of Corps 
members outside government establishments was stopped in 2013.29 
Meanwhile, with the recent creation of ministry for digital economy by 
the President Buhari , some Igbo youths are changing the narratives by 
creating digital platforms from the experience they aquired from the 
NYSC and are now emerging as Digital Economy Ambassadors 
(DEAs).30 The experience from the platform had provided networking 
and funding opportunities; learning resources and specified strategies 
                                                           27Ogbonna N. Oral Interview, Entrepreneur (NYSC Beneficiary), Lagos, 26 year  28Ogbonna N. Oral Interview, Entrepreneur (NYSC Beneficiary), Lagos, 36 year  29 NYSC News. Overview. A Journal of the NYSC Directorate Headquarters: NYSC, 
Abuja. 2020. 30Damilola A. National Youth Service Corps and the future of Nigeria’s digital 
economy. Youth Transforming Africa, 2019 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Skills Acquisition Programmes and Igbo Youth Empowerment in Nigeria 
203 
 
for them to drive digitalization of their businesses and provided digital 
services for other big businesses that needed their services. For 
instance, gone are the days when people usually flood the bus terminals 
operated by Igbo transporters to buy travelling tickets. The buying is 
now done online from the comfort of your home using digital means.31 
The majority of corps members are posted by the government to work 
as teachers in primary and secondary schools scattered all over the 
country including Igbo land. This had provided a perfect opportunity 
for the transfer of digital knowledge to their students in Igbo land. 
Some of these corps teachers had created digital clubs in the schools 
that they were posted to. Through these clubs, corps members had 
prepared Igbo young students for the digital economy by using the 
learning resources available on the DEA platform. 
During the service year, corps members are encouraged to embark on 
individual projects.  This had provided opportunities for some of the 
Igbo corps members to participate in digitally-inclined projects. For 
instance, One Igbo Cops member during her service year, introduced a 
program at her workplace known as “Zeb Internship program” (ZIP).32  
Through the ZIP, she conducted software training for university interns 
to enable them stay relevant in the profession of urban planning. corps 
members are being prepared to learn and develop similar impactful 
digital projects during the service year. 
The NYSC SAED program had impacted greatly in the training of young 
graduates particularly Igbo youths in ICT, engineering works, agro-
allied business among others. The current Director General of NYSC 
Gen. S. Ibrahim, having seen the need to make more digital skills 
available and attractive to corps members, has been leading strong 
                                                           31Ugochukwu O. Oral Interview. Transporter, GUO Cele Bus Terminal, Lagos 56 
years. 32Damilola A. National Youth Service Corps and the future of Nigeria’s digital 
economy. Youth Transforming Africa, 2019 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                  Orji Ifeanyi Boniface 
204 
 
advocacy for partnership with both the public and private sectors to 
ensure that lots of the Corps members are provided with the 
opportunities of participating and benefitting from the digital economy. 
There are a lot of testimonies from young Igbo corps members who had 
benefited from the various opportunities and have become self-reliant 
since they finished the national service year.33The Digital Platform had 
provided the background of the skills and guide corps members to 
make informed and relevant choices. 
One great thing that the NYSC Scheme has sustained is its partnership 
with funding both in the public and private sector to enable corps 
members to access soft loans for various enterprises. Many Igbo Corps 
members of Igbo extraction have benefitted from this scheme.34This 
had become a ready-made funding opportunity for Igbo NYSC members 
to establish businesses that in return are creating employment and 
directly driving the country’s economy forward. The Igbo beneficiaries 
of this scheme in the Igbo philosophy of “Onyeaghalanwanneya” (your 
brother should not be left out) are providing a regularly updated list of 
other available funding opportunities and networking for other Igbo 
NYSC members to set up joint ventures.35 
 
Conclusion 
Youth empowerment programs involve different ways through which 
the youths could be empowered to achieve self-sustained development 
instead of depending on the government to provide them with job 
opportunities in the civil service. The NYSC having realised this, had 
embarked on massive youth development programs in all states of the 
federation with the skills acquisition and entrepreneurship 
development programme as key intervening initiative for graduate 
                                                           33Eke O. Oral Interview, Entrepreneur (NYSC Beneficiary), Lagos, 33 year 34NYSC News. Overview. A Journal of the… 35Egbujulam N. Oral Interview, Entrepreneur Lagos, 35 year 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Skills Acquisition Programmes and Igbo Youth Empowerment in Nigeria 
205 
 
youths empowerment. The Igbo graduates who have soft spot for 
business and entrepreneurship had taken advantage of the NYSC SAED 
training to develop themselves and broaden their business horizon and 
entrepreneurship acumen. It is believed that the exposure the youths 
(Igbo in particular)had received indifferent vocational skills had 
enhanced their sustainable income, in addition to the socio-economic 
development of the country. The Igbo graduates are good example of 
the success story, made possible because the culture of 
entrepreneurship inbuilt in them coupled with the creative ideas 
instilled in them by the NYSC vocational skill acquisition programmes, 
and has continued to make them more productive and self-reliant 
members of the society. 
However, despite the NYSC interventions so far, it is very imperative 
for the government to ensure that all her policies and programs are 
been geared towards human capacity development, and must be 
properly implemented. In view of the above, public funds meant for any 
developmental programme must be properly monitored and entirely 
accounted for by relevant agencies in order to avoid misappropriation 
of public funds. The NYSC scheme has recorded remarkable success 
and impact the corps members through the skills acquisition and 
entrepreneurship programme, evidenced by the number of corps 
beneficiaries who are now self employed and employers of labour. 
Government must therefore make efforts to expand it through more 
business funding windows. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                  Orji Ifeanyi Boniface 
206 
 
Bibliography 
 
Amadi, O. B. & Abdullah, H. “Perception of Capacity Building among 
Youths Involved in Vocational Skills Development”.Journal of 
Social and Development Sciences. Vol. 3 No. 6, 2012, pp. 214-
221. 
Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN).Statistical Bulletin. Vol. 15 .Abuja, CBN 
Publications. 2012. 
Damilola A. National Youth Service Corps and the future of Nigeria’s 
digital economy. Youth Transforming Africa, 2019 
Damilola A. National Youth Service Corps and the future of Nigeria’s 
digital economy. Youth Transforming Africa, 2011 
Diigbo, G. The Importance of Skills Acquisition. A Paper presented at the 
First National Conference on Human Education and National 
Development, organized by the Department of Curriculum 
University of Lagos. 2009 
Douli, J.C. An Overview of Nigeria Economic Reform.Central Bank of 
Nigeria, Economic and Financial Review, Vol. 42, No. 4. 2012, pp. 
870-90. 
Egbujulam N. Oral Interview, Entrepreneur Lagos, 35 year 
Eke O. Oral Interview, Entrepreneur (NYSC Beneficiary), Lagos, 33 year 
Encarta Dictionary. Youth Empowerment, Microsoft. 2009 
Fletcher, A. Guide to Students as Partners in Social Change. The Free 
Child Project. 2005. Retrieved online from 
http://en.wikipedia.org.wiki/youth empowerment 15/03/2020. 
Hussaini, M. Poverty Alleviation Programs in Nigeria: Issues and 
challenges. International Journal of Development Research, Vol. 
4, No. 3, 2014, pp. 717-720.  
ILO Publication.Youth Pathway to Decent Work (Defining Youths). ILO, 
Geneva. 2005, p.78 
ILO Publication. Youth Pathway to Decent Work… 
Jimba, D. I. Exigencies of Youth Empowerment for Sustainable 
Development in Nigeria.In Agwuama (Eds), the Contemporary 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Skills Acquisition Programmes and Igbo Youth Empowerment in Nigeria 
207 
 
Issues and the Challenges of Sustainable Development in the 
New Millennium: the Nigerian Experience. 2007. 
Kuti, Z. The Youth Empowerment Scheme of HajiyaZainab Kure. 2006. 
Available: wwwYesngo.org/aboutyes/htm Retrieved on 17th 
January 2021.  
Lawanson O. High Rate of Unemployment in  Nigeria. The Consequence of 
Human Research Management. A Paper delivered in EU Society 
of Help, Rome, Italy. 2007, p.43 
National Bureau of Statistics 
National Bureau of Statistics 
National Bureau of Statistics. “Statistics News: Labor Force Statistics”. 
Abuja: The NBS. 2017. 
National Bureau of Statistics. Social Statistics in Nigeria, Abuja; the NBS 
Publication. 2020 
Ntiwunka, G. U. Level of Awareness of Developmental Projects by the 
Ministry of Women Affairs among Citizens of Ogun State. The 
International Journal of Science and Technology, Vol. 2, No. 6, 
2014, p. 172. 
NYSC News. NYSC Skill Programme a Laudable Initiative. A Journal of 
the NYSC Directorate Headquarters: NYSC, Abuja. 2018 
NYSC News.A Journal of the NYSC Directorate Headquarters: NYSC, 
Abuja. 2010 
NYSC News.Overview. A Journal of the NYSC Directorate Headquarters: 
NYSC, Abuja. 2020. 
NYSC News.Overview. A Journal of the… 
NYSC Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Department 
(SAED)NYSC National Directorate Headquarters. 2017 
Ogbonna N. Oral Interview, Entrepreneur (NYSC Beneficiary), Lagos, 26 
year  
Ogbonna N. Oral Interview, Entrepreneur (NYSC Beneficiary), Lagos, 36 
year  
Omene. NYSC News 2012. 
President Goodluck Jonathan Address. NYSC News 2014. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                  Orji Ifeanyi Boniface 
208 
 
Salami C.G.E. Youth Unemployment in Nigeria: A Time for Creative 
Intention. International Journal of Business and Marketing 
Management, Vol. 11. No. 7, 72-91 Retrieved from www. Journal 
Org/AJBM, 2013, p.14 
Ugochukwu O. Oral Interview. Transporter, GUO Cele Bus Terminal, 
Lagos 56 years. 
Unemployment Survey Report. Survey Report. Ministry of Labour and 
Productivity, Abuja. 2019, pp. 2-8 
Uzochukwu N. Skill Acquisition Panacea to Nigeria’s Rising 
Unemployment: 16th Annual Public Lecture of the Chartered 
Institute of Personnel Management of Nigeria (CIPM), Lagos. 
2013, p.18 
Valrus J. and Fletcher A. Guide to Social Change led by and with Young 
People. The Free Child Project. 2006. Retrieved online from 
http://en.wikipedia.org.wiki/youth empowerment 15/03/2020. 
Wogu C.The Job Creator Newsletter of the National Directorate of 
Employment. Wogu Commission Skill Centre Vol.10, No. 2, 2013. 
www.nysc.gov.ng/history2.php 
www.nysc.gov.ng/history2.php 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC Skills Acquisition Programmes and Igbo Youth Empowerment in Nigeria 
209 
 
Appendix 9.1 
 
List of Igbo Ex-Corp members that benefited from NYSC Various 
Scheme 
S/N Name Year Place Skill Business 
1. Ugochukwu 
Onwugbufor 
2011 Abuja Skills 
Acquisition 
Software 
Accessories 
2  Kalu 
Adaeze 
2015  Kano Skills 
Acquisition 
Pastry 
3 Eneh Anastasia  2011 Abuja Entrepreneu
rship  
SME 
4 Ichie Ifunanya 2016  Jos Entrepreneu
rship  
SME 
5 Iroh Ugochi 2016  Enugu Skills 
Acquisition 
Makeup 
Artist 
6  Nnachi Abraham 2018  Calabar Skills 
Acquisition 
Carpentry 
7 Okonkwo 
Akachukwu 
2018  Lagos Entrepreneu
rship 
Online 
Blogger 
8 Amarachi Francis 2017  Delta Entrepreneu
rship  
SME 
9 John Nwachukwu 2019 Niger Skills 
Acquisition 
Confession
ary 
10 Arazu Peter 2015  Gombe Skills 
Acquisition 
Shoe maker 
11 Egwu Azubuike 2014 Nasara
wa 
Entrepreneu
rship  
Horticultur
ist 
12  Nkwocha Benedict 2011 Bayelsa Entrepreneu
rship 
SME 
13 Chijioke Nkama 2013 Benue  Ea-Net Africa Software 
designer 
14 Collins Mbachu 2012  Abia Skills 
Acquisition 
Baker 
15 Ebere Imo 2018  Kastina Skills 
Acquisition 
Fish 
Farmer 
16 Ejimofor Nkechi 2015  Rivers Skills 
Acquisition 
Snail 
Farmer 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                  Orji Ifeanyi Boniface 
210 
 
17 Chimdi Paul 2018 Kaduna Skills 
Acquisition 
Fish farmer 
18 Chinwe Agnes 2019 Lagos Entrepreneu
rship 
Blogger 
19 Chima 
Uchechukwu 
2012  Kano Skills 
Acquisition 
Confession
ary 
20  Okafor Ebuka 2018  Bauchi Ea-Net Africa Software 
designer 
21  Ijioma Emmanuel 2017  Ekiti Skills 
Acquisition 
Poultry  
22  Ukatta Eunice 2018  Lagos Skills 
Acquisition 
Poultry 
23 Agbo Evelyn 2019 Kano Entrepreneu
rship 
SME 
24 Udofia Favor 2017  Abuja Ea-Net Africa Web 
designer 
25  Nwankwo 
Jonathan 
2018  Osun Entrepreneu
rship 
SME 
26  Asefu Moses 2018  Kaduna Entrepreneu
rship 
Confession
ary 
27  Oha Nnnaemeka 2015  Zamfara Skills 
Acquisition 
Shoe maker 
28  Ogazi Faith 2019 Oyo Skills 
Acquisition 
Horticultur
ist 
29 Queendaline 
Okeke 
2019 Abuja Ea-Net Africa Software 
designer 
30 Nwachukwu 
Roseline 
2018  Bayelsa Ea-Net Africa Software 
designer 
 
Source: 2020 Field Research 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Skill Acquisitions and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED): 
211 
 
 11 1100 00    
    Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development 
(SAED): Exploring the Trajectory through Beneficiaries 
 
 
Jamiu Yusuf Danga 
 
 
Introduction 
Entrepreneurship development is a strategy for youth development in 
both developed and developing economies. The pervasive nature of 
unemployment has led to the great emphasis being laid on youth 
entrepreneurship development in Nigeria. This involves the 
development of soft and hard skills that can assist them to be self-
sufficient and productively contribute to the economy. Since 2012 the 
National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) developed Skills Acquisition and 
Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) programme as a way of 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                      Jamiu Yusuf Danga 
 212  
 
channelling the energy of Nigerian youths to entrepreneurship 
development. The aim is to introduce Corps members to specific skills 
from the NYSC Orientation Camp and throughout their service year. 
These skills once developed, will serve as a launch pad for the 
development of entrepreneurship endeavor. This will go a along way to 
reduce the pressure on the labour market, as these youths can be 
strongly positioned to participate in small and medium scale 
enterprises (SMEs). 
Youth entrepreneurship development as a strategy has been identified 
as a panacea to national economic development by different scholars.1  
Adebayo observed that youth employment has the potential to 
significantly contribute to the national economy while reducing social 
vices such as rape, theft, banditry, and other crimes.2 Similarly, Njoku 
observed that there is a nexus between youth unemployment and 
social challenges; hence, when there are different policies that are 
implemented to tackle the issue of unemployment, these social issues 
naturally fade away.3 Some of these social issues that are associated 
                                                           1 J. Torikka, “Entrepreneurial Processes of the Finnish Franchisee Training 
Program’s Graduates”. In T. Ehrmann, J. Windsperger, G. Cliquet, & G. Hendrikse 
(Eds.), Network Governance . (Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer Berlin, 2013). pp. 287–
312; Heidelberg.Ucbasaran, D., Westhead, P., Wright, M., & Flores, M. “The nature 
of entrepreneurial experience, business failure and comparative optimism”. 
Journal of Business Venturing, 25(6), (2010): pp. 541–555. J. P. Ulhøi, “The social 
dimensions of entrepreneurship” Technovation, 25(8), . (2005): 939–946. L.Y. 
Zhao, S. Lee,  & L. Chen, “Entrepreneurial Orientation, Organizational Learning, 
and Performance: Evidence From China.” Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice, 
35(2), (2011): pp. 293–317. 2  A. A. Adebayo, “Youths' unemployment and crime in Nigeria: A nexus and 
implications for national development.” International Journal of Sociology and 
Anthropology, (2013). 350-357. 3A., Njoku, & O.Ihugba, “Unemployment and Nigerian Economic Growth (1985-
2009).” International Conference on Teaching, Learning and Change (2011): pp. 1-
11. IATEL; Emeh, I. E.-J., Nwanguma, E. O., &Abaroh, J. J, “Engaging Youth 
Unemployment in Nigeria with Youth Development and Empowerment 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Skill Acquisitions and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED): 
213 
 
with youth unemployment include poverty, poor standard of living, 
poor healthcare, and an increase in the crime rate.4 Therefore, 
empowering youths to develop their entrepreneurship potentials is 
capable of reducing these social vices while contributing positively to 
the development of the country. 
 
Conceptual Clarification 
Entrepreneurship 
Entrepreneurship has been defined in several ways;A common 
definition is to see the concept as a function of an individual which 
includes: seeing investment and production opportunities: organizing 
an enterprise to undertake a new production process; raising capital, 
hiring labor, arranging for a supply of raw materials, finding a site, and 
combining these factors of production into a growing concern; 
introducing new techniques and commodities, discovering new sources 
of natural resources; and selecting top managers for the day-to-day 
operation5 
 
Youth Empowerment 
Empowerment is the process that creates power in individuals over 
their own lives, society, and communities. According to a study by 
Adams Robert; empowerment is the capacity and process of 
individuals, groups, and communities to take control of their 
circumstances, use power and achieve their own goals individually and 
collectively. Describes youth empowerment as being used 
                                                                                                                                       
Programmes; The Lagos State in Focus. “Interdisciplinary Journal of Contemporary 
Research in Business, 4(5), . (2012). 1125-1141. 4 O N. D., Oye, I.,  Inuwa, & M. S. Ahmad, “Unemployment in Nigeria: Implication 
on the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) Over the Years.”  International Journal of 
Economic Research, 2(1), (2011). 66-71.   5 S.H. Henry “The concept of entrepreneurship economic development”   Journal 
of Economic Issues, Vol. 2, No. 2 (Jun., 1968), pp. 228-232 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                      Jamiu Yusuf Danga 
 214  
 
interchangeably with youth activism, leadership, civic participation, 
and -self-efficacy. 
Youth empowerment may take many different shapes and forms. 
According to Pigg, three levels of empowerment are critical to research 
and practice of empowerment as a process, these include the following: 
●  Self-empowerment: individuals empower themselves through 
personal knowledge, attitudes, and behavior. 
●  Mutual empowerment: individuals empower themselves 
through interpersonal action. 
●  Social empowerment: individuals empower themselves through 
collective social action.6  
Youth empowerment aims to improve the quality of one’s life through 
actions that allow one’s access to resources, transforms consciousness 
through beliefs, values, and attitudes. It relies on the development of 
individuals.  Youth empowerment is divided into 6 interdependent 
domains; Four popular types of youth empowerment ; 
●  Financial youth empowerment; the most popular category. This 
involves cash offered to youths to start a business. 
●  Academic youth empowerment; government, public or private 
organizations support people academically through 
scholarships. 
●  Agricultural youth empowerment; a major economic 
development, organizations empower young people to promote 
agriculture. 
●  Skill Acquisition youth empowerment; this involves training on 
a particular task or function such as photography, cosmetology, 
bead making, baking, catering, e.t.c. 
 
The challenge of Youth Unemployment in Nigeria 
                                                           6 Cited in Henry “The concept of entrepreneurship” 229 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Skill Acquisitions and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED): 
215 
 
Unemployment in Nigeria is a well-known social issue, scholars agree 
that there is a challenge of youth unemployment in Nigeria as a result 
of several factors such as corruption in the private and public sphere, 
underdeveloped or dilapidated manufacturing sector, theoretical 
nature of education in Nigeria which does not adequately prepare 
youths for skill demanding professions, lack of essential social services 
such as good roads, epileptic power supply, and insecurity. These 
factors have hindered youth employment with tremendous 
implications for national development and national security. The 
persistent eruptions of ethno religious crisis, armed banditry, thuggery 
are also associated with youth unemployment.  
Okeke and Eme observed that despite the abundance of resources such 
as crude oil, arable agricultural land, and other mineral resources, that 
present an opportunity for Nigeria’s economic ascendance, the country 
remains economically challenged.7 They noted that despite series of 
economic reforms, this trend has not been reversed. Rather issues such 
as deteriorating capacity; weakened institutions; disparity in salary of 
private and public officials, neglect of education; and inadequate 
infrastructure investment, dramatic stock market decline, and banking 
crisis, and the global economic crisis continue to pressure the economy. 
More so, various social programmes aimed at stymieing unemployment 
since 1999 have either been inadequately implemented or marginally 
successful. For instance, there have been a plethora of youth 
development and empowerment programmes aimed at reducing 
poverty and unemployment. Some of these programmes include the 
following: 
 
                                                           7 I. E.-J., Emeh, E. O.,  Nwanguma, & , J. J. Abaroh “Engaging Youth Unemployment 
in Nigeria with Youth Development and Empowerment Programmes; The Lagos 
State in Focus” Interdisciplinary Journal of Contemporary Research in Business, 
4(5), (2012). 1125-1141. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                      Jamiu Yusuf Danga 
 216  
 
National Poverty Eradication Programme (NAPEP) 
National Poverty Eradication Programme (NAPEP) is a 2001 program 
by the Nigerian government aimed at poverty reduction, in particular, 
reduction of absolute poverty. NAPEP was to coordinate and oversee 
various other institutions, including ministries, and develop plans and 
guidelines for them to follow with regards to poverty reduction. NAPEP 
goals include training youths in vocational trades, 
supporting internships, supporting micro-credit, create employment in 
the automobile industry.8 
The Subsidy Reinvestment and Empowerment Program ('SURE-P) 
The Subsidy Reinvestment and Empowerment Program known as 
'SURE-P is a scheme established by the Federal Government of 
Nigeria during the Jonathan Administration, to re-invest the Federal 
Government savings from fuel subsidy removal on critical 
infrastructure projects and social safety net programmes with direct 
impact on the citizens of Nigeria. SURE-P was established in January 
2012 when the Federal Government of Nigeria announced the removal 
of subsidy on premium Motor Spirit (PMS). Some of the specific aims of 
the scheme were to; provide employments for unemployed graduates 
through internship programs; create a database of unemployed youth 
and reduce social vulnerability among the group in the country through 
the mechanism of the policy.9 
 
N-Power 
N-Power is a scheme set up by the President of Nigeria, Muhammadu 
Buhari on 8th June 2016, to address the issues of youth unemployment 
and help increase social development. The scheme was created as a 
component of the National Social Investment Program, to provide a 
                                                           8 http://www.napep.gov.ng; Karl Wohlmuth; Reuben AdeoluAlabi; Phillippe 
Burger. New growth and poverty alleviation strategies for Africa: B and regional 
Perspectives . (LIT:  VerlagMünster,  2008) pp. 60–61 9 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Skill Acquisitions and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED): 
217 
 
structure for large-scale and relevant work skills acquisition and 
development and to ensure that each participant will learn and practice 
most of what is necessary to find or create work. 
Despite these interventions to ensure employment development and 
reduce poverty, several issues have been observed as constraining the 
efforts of these programmes: 
a. Lack of adequate finance: although the programmes were 
designed by the government and implemented by the 
government, there remains the issue of inadequate allocation 
and sometimes delayed allocation which hinder the effective 
implementation of these programmes. 
b. Favouritism: a major challenge is that beneficiaries are 
sometimes picked based on their political affiliation, 
geographical and ethnic considerations. This means that there 
is a lack of universal enjoyment of the initiative in Nigeria. 
c. Lack of private involvement: the fact that the programmes 
are driven and financed by the government with the huge 
financial implications meant these programmes were 
unsustainable.Private initiatives were not promoted in the 
implementation of most of these programmes and others 
before them with consequences on financing and sustainability. 
d. Lack of continuity: the nature of these programmes meant that 
as each political administration left government, successive 
governments tend to initiate their programmes thereby 
underfunding or abandoning the programmes they met. 
Generally, these programmes did not significantly alter the rate of 
youth unemployment in Nigeria. Although marginal achievements were 
made at intervals, youth unemployment remained very high. According 
to the statistics in figure one, while youth unemployment stood at 9.6 it 
reduced to 9.02% between 2007 and 2008. Although there was a 
temporary decline between 2013 and 2015, in unemployment among 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                      Jamiu Yusuf Danga 
 218  
 
youths, indeed, the figure showed that youth unemployment has 
continued to grow in recent times. 
 
Figure 10.1: A Chart showing percentage of Youth unemployment 
in Nigeria from 1999 to 2020 
 
Source: H. Fletcher “Statistica” 
https://www.statista.com/statistics/812300/youth-unemployment-
rate-in-nigeria/ 
 
An Overview of the NYSC Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship 
Development (SAED) Programme 
In 2012, the National Youth Service Corps launched a nationwide 
initiative, The Skill Acquisition, And Entrepreneurship Development 
(SAED) programme. The Department is headed by a Director and made 
up of three divisions namely: Partnership Programmes and 
Empowerment Divisions. The SAED Programme is an initiative aimed 
at aiding Corps members to obtain necessary skills that will encourage 
them to pursue entrepreneurship careers. It also equips them with 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Skill Acquisitions and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED): 
219 
 
skills that are relevant to independent sustenance and business 
management understanding. 
The programme’s mission is to facilitate access to requisite skills and 
resources necessary for successful entrepreneurship and it is targeted 
at Nigerian graduates deployed for the one-year service and 
implemented during the required camping exercises and throughout 
the service year. Its 5 core intervention areas are; 
●  Sensitization. 
●  Training and Advisory. 
●  Access to finance. 
●  Policy influencing, and 
●  Access to non-financial enterprise development. 
The program places emphasis on 12 vocational skill sets such as; 
Culture and Tourism, Film and Photography, Environment, Power and 
Energy, Education, Agro-Allied, Automobile, Construction, 
Cosmetology, Information and Communication Technology, Food 
Processing and Preservation, Horticulture and Landscaping. Some of 
the more specific objectives of the scheme include the following: 
 
Aim and Objectives of SAED 
i. Sensitize and mobilize 200, 000 young graduates for skill 
acquisition annually. 
ii. Facilitate the training and mentoring of 100, 000 young 
graduates in skill acquisition and entrepreneurship 
development for self-reliance annually. 
iii. Promote public-private partnership for entrepreneurship 
development and self-reliance amongst Nigerian youths. 
iv. Promote documentation and sharing of best practices on youth 
empowerment in Nigeria. 
v. Support evidence-driven advocacy efforts for favorable policies 
on youth empowerment in Nigeria. Sensitization and 
mobilization of Corps members for enrollment into the Skill 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                      Jamiu Yusuf Danga 
 220  
 
Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development program. 
Development of a standard curriculum for the in-camp skill 
acquisition exercise. 
vi. Identification of organizations at the state level to provide 
training and mentoring in specific skill sets. 
vii. Attachment of the Corps members to the various organizations 
for skill acquisition and entrepreneurship development. 
viii. On-going monitoring and supervision of trainee Corps 
members. 
ix. Facilitate access to available funding opportunities10  
To achieve these aims of the scheme, there are certain strategies 
evolved by the NYSC to reach its goals, these are to begin from training 
Corps members from Camp. The in-camp training aims at giving Corps 
members an extensive orientation of the various entrepreneurial 
opportunities and options available to be explored. They are given 
practical guides through experts in different fields, who provide basic 
information about various endeavours. After this, there is the camp 
follow up which is where the main training of Corps members is carried 
out. At this stage, there is a genuine interest that has been developed 
and skills development and acquisition is achieved at this stage. 
 
Exploring the Trajectory of SAED through Beneficiaries 
Following the experience of youths who have benefitted from the SAED 
programme, it may be discerned that many youths have been allowed 
to pursue their passion, which goes beyond their main academic 
pursuit. For instance, some of the respondents who have benefitted 
from the SAED programme and transformed their passion to portfolio, 
shared their experience in various interviews across the sectors SAED 
                                                           10NYSC: Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Department 
https://www.nysc.gov.ng/saed.html 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Skill Acquisitions and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED): 
221 
 
covers. The idea is to shed light on the SAED programme by focusing on 
how it has equipped beneficiaries with soft and hard skills.  
SAED has assisted in the development of two types of skills for youths; 
these are soft and hard skills. Soft skill is a measure of communication 
and interpersonal relation elements of an individual; it includes the 
attitudes and approaches applicants take to their work, such as the 
ability to collaborate on team projects.11 This type of skill not only 
helps the people at the entry-level but also at the senior level of 
management as these interpersonal skills are essential from bottom to 
top. Some examples of communications, critical and decision-making, 
interpersonal, negotiation, problem-solving, self-confidence, self-
management, teamwork, and worth ethics, contrasts greatly with hard 
skills.12 
According to Kennedy, hard skills are used as a basis for the 
development of educational curriculum, future profiling of jobs, and the 
technical functions that the industry desire most.13 An aspect of SAED 
that is very important to the scheme is equipping graduates with soft 
skills, this is to give them an edge in a very competitive labour market. 
In this regard, Andrew Angbah and Hakeem Abdul have similar 
experiences. Hakeem quipped that he learned the art of writing 
                                                           11 G. Singh & S. Singh, “Malaysian Graduates’ Employability Skills.” UNITAR e-
Journal 4.1, (2008): pp: 15-45. Available online at: 
http://repository.um.edu.my/66328/1/UNITAR%20E-JOURNAL _Gurvinder 
%20%26%20Sharan ; J. Pritchard, The importance of Soft Skills in Entry-Level 
Employment and Postsecondary Success: Perspectives from Employers and 
Community Colleges. (Seattle, WA: Seattle Jobs Initiative, 2013).; F.F. Patactsil& 
C.L. Tablatin Exploring the Importance of Soft Skills and Hard Skills as Perceived by 
IT Internship Sudents and Industry: A Gap Analysis.  Journal of Technology and 
Science Education 7(3) (2017): 247-368 https://doi.org/10.3926/jotse.271;  12  R.A., Noe, J.R., Hollenbeck, & B. Gerhart, Fundamental of Human Resource 
Management . New York: McGraw-Hill, 2015) 13 Kennedy, J. “Hard Skills, Soft Skills Important to Career Success.” (2016). 
Available online at: http://www.chicago tribune.com/classified/sns-
201512021000--tms--careersntp--h-bb20151209-20151209- column.html  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                      Jamiu Yusuf Danga 
 222  
 
curriculum vitae as a skill during the NYSC orientation course. 
According to him, he developed this soft skill as a way of being ahead of 
his peers in the very competitive job industry. More so, this skill soon 
proved pivotal to his entrepreneurial development, Hakeem shared his 
experience thus: 
My SAED programme was on writing Curriculum Vitae 
(CV). After learning during the orientation programme, I 
decided to advertise myself among corps members, they 
were very responsive. And I will charge them one 
thousand naira for every CV I wrote. So I decided to go 
online and advertise. It was from there I saved and 
bought printers and scanners. I decided to open an ICT 
immediately after my service year, I currently have 20 
computers in my shop and other ICT gadgets. I carry out 
computer training, motivational speaking, and CV writing 
both online and offline to many people.14 
The tendency to focus on paper qualification as a precondition for life 
success has led to many graduates developing anxiety about what the 
future holds for them. For instance, many humanities graduate tend to 
wonder what their earned academic certificate hold for them especially 
in Nigeria. This is because of the difficulty in securing jobs whether in 
the civil service or the private sector. Indeed, several respondents 
expressed this fear as they observed many of the humanities graduate 
they know are either working in low-paid teaching jobs or still walking 
around with their Curriculum Vitae (CV) as applicants. Nevertheless, 
SAED has been able to give youths who pass through the NYSC 
Orientation Camps a sense of (re)direction and purpose. Andrew 
Angbah who nurtured such worries as a graduate of philosophy took 
the advantage of SAED by upgrading his soft skills; he enrolled for the 
                                                           14 Oral Interview with Hakeem Abdul 33+ Cybercafe Manager in Lokoja on 23, 
February 2021 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Skill Acquisitions and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED): 
223 
 
National Institute of Management (NIM) certification programme while 
in the Orientation Camp and this proved to be a very important career-
changing decision. According to Andrew: 
I studied Philosophy and Religion in school, as a 
graduate, I was very clueless about what opportunities 
are out there for me, so that was the mindset I took to 
camp, at the Kebbi State Orientation camp, I simply 
flowed with the tide. One day, my friend asked me to join 
him that he wants to go and collect a form for the 
National Institute of Management (NIM). I tried to 
discourage him that what is a humanity graduate doing 
with a management course? He said it is just to use it to 
add and make him marketable, he adviced I did the same. 
So we bought the form together and after the camp, we 
went for training and orientation. I did not attach much 
value to the certificate until two years later when I went 
for an interview as a manager of a hotel, although I didn’t 
have any practical experience, I passed the test and was 
among the finalist, in the face to face interview with the 
proprietor, he asked me why I am qualified, I explained 
how I am an inducted member of the institute of 
management and how this can help me bring good 
management that is profitable to his course. The man 
was impressed and I was hired immediately, he later 
revealed to me that he liked that I am a certified manager 
as that will help market his hotel to his clients. I have 
been advising any corps member I come across to ensure 
that he/she participates in the SAED programme 
vigorously, because I am a practical beneficiary. 15 
                                                           15Interview with  Andrew Angba 32+ Hotel Manager, in Zuba Abuja  on February 
15th 2021 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                      Jamiu Yusuf Danga 
 224  
 
Hakeem and Angbah’s experiences show the importance of developing 
soft skills as a strategy for obtaining a competitive edge. SAED, 
therefore, complements academic institutions by producing avenues 
for the development of soft skills. This is also the case with hard skills, 
although the SAED scheme is not comparable to the curriculum of 
educational institutions, yet the strong technical linkage it has with 
different collaborators has proven to be technically and vocationally 
educative. This has led to the development of hard skills that have 
become a major avenue of entrepreneurial development. In this regard, 
skills such as fish farming, fashion designing, and cosmetic production 
have been developed by Corps members in Orientation and post 
Orientation periods. Therefore, many youths who have been trained 
have embarked on series of businesses that have earned them a living. 
A major area that has been a lucrative business venture is the fashion 
industry, the sub-industry includes fashion designing, cosmetology, and 
make-up industry. There is a high demand for make-up artists 
especially during birthdays, weddings, and other events. This has led to 
the make-up industry soaring high among entrepreneurs. Maryam 
Onozasi particularly shared her passion for make-up and fashion 
generally. She noted that her conservative Muslim background had 
prevented her from actively pursuing her passion for fashion, as her 
parents would not permit it.16  More so, as a student of Al-Hikmah 
University where strict Islamic tenets were mixed with academics, 
Maryam said she felt very restrained. This is because her idea of 
fashion does not negate the Islamic practices as upheld by her parents 
and her school. A turning point was when she attended the NYSC 
Orientation Course in Nasarawa state. She revealed that: 
“…when I went to the Orientation Camp in Keffi, 
Nassarawa State, they introduced us to SAED, I quickly 
joined the make-up class. During my camp days, I will 
                                                           16Interview with Maryam Aliyu, 24+ cosmetologist, Interviewed in Mararaba, 
Nasarawa State Jan 23rd 2021 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Skill Acquisitions and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED): 
225 
 
go and practice on some of my friends’ faces. The 
instructor told me that I was naturally gifted in make-
up. Although, my mother did not support me initially 
when I told her about what I was learning. During my 
service year, I continued learning make-up, it was 
during my sister’s wedding ceremony after a make-up 
artist came to demand N50,000 for two days and I 
objected and said I will do it for N20,000. Although I 
didn’t get the money, I showed my talent I ended up 
doing the make-up of the entire family. After the 
wedding, my mother told me to open a make-up saloon 
and that she will support me in any way she can after 
my service. So far, I have six people learning make-up 
under me, I have traveled to four states to do make-up 
for people doing one occasion or the other. 17  
An interesting aspect of Maryam’s account is the way her 
entrepreneurial success led to acceptance from her parents. It is, 
therefore, a huge credit to SAED that by equipping Corps members with 
skills, parents who previously held the view that only by studying 
specific academic courses make their wards successful will understand 
that gaining practical skills is as valuable as the paper qualification 
from their schools. A similar account of how youths are taking 
advantage of the boom in the fashion industry was shared by Aliyu 
Bilkisu: 
I learned coconut oil and soap making. During that 
time, I was very passionate because I wanted to learn 
how to cleanse my face which had lots of acne. I 
learned natural skincare and I have since been putting 
it into practice. I sell my coconut oil as far as 
Portharcourt because I advertise it on social media. 
                                                           17 Interview with Maryam Aliyu, 24+ cosmetologist, Interviewed in Mararaba, 
Nasarawa State Jan 23rd 2021  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                      Jamiu Yusuf Danga 
 226  
 
Although transportation cost from Ilorin is high, I still 
make lots of gains. 18 
The boom in the cosmetic and fashion industry in which many 
Nigerians seek to be beautiful while using natural products has 
inspired entrepreneurs like Bilkisu. This is especially because many 
imported cosmetic products with their associated chemical have been 
identified as destructive to the skin of users. Shalom et al observed that 
people who relied on foreign skincare products for beauty 
enhancement tend to face challenges caused by damages to their skin 
as a result.19 They aver that natural quality products produced by 
Nigerian businesses can be a safe remedy. Natural organic products are 
proving to be effective and safe alternatives, and this had led to huge 
demands for organic products. SAED has been equipping youths with 
the requisite skills to either produce the major ingredients or even 
skincare products, thereby enhancing their entrepreneurial capacity.  
Fashion designing has equally witnessed a boom, many Nigerians have 
become drawn to the wearing of local fabrics that are well-tailored and 
embroidered. This has drawn fashion enthusiasts from Nigeria and 
beyond to participate in the industry. Although this aspect of 
entrepreneurship is an age-long one, the recent trend is to have very 
quality tailored clothes for different occasions as well as casual wear. 
This is not lost on the stakeholders of the SAED scheme, several fashion 
designing experts have been collaborating with NYSC to train 
enthusiastic Corps members to learn a different aspect of tailoring from 
the scratch. This has created a wealth of fashion designers who have 
excelled in their endeavours, Kalu Ome shared his experience in this 
regard: 
                                                           18 Interview with Bilkis Ibrahim 30+ Cosmetologist, in Kwara, 13th March 2021 19 S.N. CHineduet al “Skincare Product Usage: Implications on Health and 
Wellbeing of Africans” Journal of Applied Sciences 13(3) (2013): pp: 430-436 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Skill Acquisitions and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED): 
227 
 
Although I did not initially have an interest in the SAED 
programme I opted for, I joined because they made it 
mandatory in camp to belong to one SAED programme. 
I decided to join fashion designing, from my initial 
bicycle allowance, I bought rubber-rubber material and 
I used it to learn how to cut and sew clothes. I did not 
know how to even fix needs, and most times girls 
usually laugh at me, however, I became determined to 
prove them wrong, every opportunity I had, I will go 
and practice. Before 2 weeks, I became the best I was 
now one of the trainers. During my service year, I 
located a fashion designing school and joined after 
showing them my SAED certificate. To God be the glory, 
I am very successful in my fashion designing. I hope to 
open a fashion school soon. But right now, I am the CEO 
of a very profitable venture in Enugu. SAED is good 
because I am not sure any government body can pay 
me the amount of money I get monthly from my 
business. I charge as much as twenty thousand naira to 
sew quality clothes, and my clients are very prominent 
people. 20  
Another related industry is the creative industry, and specifically 
photography, this industry has taken the country by storm. Though 
several hand phones have very good cameras with quality pixels, it is 
not comparable to the pictures taken from the lens of cameras such as 
Nikkon and Canon. A trending verb is to go for a photoshoot. This 
statement reflects the nature of the photography industry in which 
patrons take photos for all kinds of events such as weddings, birthdays, 
anniversaries, and other celebrations. Previously, the photographic 
                                                           20 Interview withKaluOme 31+ Fashion Designer at Anambra state, 16th February 
2021 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                      Jamiu Yusuf Danga 
 228  
 
studies used to be few and in between, however, the social media space 
has sent photography to the fore. In this vein, SAED has been equipping 
youths with the necessary skills to take advantage of this industry. For 
instance, during orientation course, several photographers from 
different studios are invited to introduce Corps members to basic skills 
in photography such as editing, photo shooting, and documentary. This 
has fascinated many youths who have gone ahead to take photography 
as a career. Peter Usman shared his experience as a Corps member: 
My experience of SAED is that it is a great scheme. I had 
a passion for photography, in fact in school, my friends 
called me Picassa I liked playing with the video editing 
application, so, during my orientation, I caught up with 
a photographer during the SAED session, and I showed 
him my small skills, he was impressed and advised that 
I should get a camera that he will take me as an 
apprentice. I worked with him for six months after 
getting my first Nikkon Camera. I can confidently say I 
am a boss of my own right now. I have about 10 staff 
working under me and I have at least three apprentices 
and other partners I work with.21 
Any assessment of SAED without its contribution to the agricultural 
sectors will be incomplete. SAED has contributed immensely to the 
agricultural sector in Nigeria by training agropreneurs. This is not 
surprising, Nigeria has a large population that supports huge demand 
for agricultural products. Oluwatobiet al, observed that fish is an 
important source of protein consumed by Nigerians.22 They observed 
that it accounts for 50% of Nigerians total protein intake. Yet, the 
                                                           21  Interview with Peter Usman, 30+ Photographer in Utako Market, Abuja, 10th 
February 2021 22  A.A. Oluwatobiet al “Possible Aquaculture Development in Nigeria: Evidence for 
Commercial Prospects” Journal of Agricultural Science and Technology B 7 (2017): 
pp. 194-205 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Skill Acquisitions and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED): 
229 
 
importation of fish accounts for the main supply of fish. Local 
production is not sufficient, even though figures are estimated at 
700,000 metric tons of production. This means there is a need to equip 
youths to go into fish production; as the Nigerian population rises, so 
will the demand for fish rise. SAED has been positioning youths to 
identify their potential area of entrepreneurship. This has led to 
identifying fish production as a very viable area of skill development. 
Justin specializes in fish production and barbeque preparation in and 
around Garki and Wuse. According to him; 
I breed fish during the day and sell barbeque fish at 
night. I have a passion for cooking and in my house; my 
Mum and I are the main cooks. Therefore, when I went 
to Orientation Camp, I decided to learn fish farming. 
During my service year, I was able to secure a space for 
my humble fish farm. Whenever my fish are mature, I 
normally sell them to different gardens in Abuja. 
However, a friend of mine suggested that since I can 
cook, why don’t I also sell barbeque. I took his advice 
and went to a catering school for 3 months. I was able 
to get a discount because I had my SAED ID card. I was 
lucky to secure a small space in Kwalika garden in Area 
3, Abuja. Indeed, I now have several branches and 
people working for me. I have a training contract with 
the Brekete family where I train people on fish farming 
and barbeque making. All these would not have been 
possible without learning fish farming through SAED. 23 
Justin’s experience is an instance of how SAED has over the years 
facilitated entrepreneurial development in the agricultural sector 
through its skill development training. Furthermore, it has entered into 
                                                           23Interview with Justin B. 34+ Fish Farmer, at Emerald Garden, Garki Abuja, 19th 
February 2021 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                      Jamiu Yusuf Danga 
 230  
 
various collaborations with organisations such as the Bank of Industry 
(BOI). This collaboration is an indication of the seriousness attached to 
the agricultural sector.  
 
Towards a Critical Assessment of SAED 
Although the interviews are not exhaustive, it is a clear indication of the 
major impact of the SAED scheme on youth empowerment, skill and 
entrepreneurship development. Respondents have shown the diverse 
sectors that the programme has been able to touch. From the 
respondents, the specific sectors that were represented include the 
following: 
a. Cosmetology 
b. Agriculture 
c. ICT 
d. Photography 
e. fashion designing 
f. Management services 
These sectors are not just skill-based, they are equally private-sector 
driven. They are also creative industries with huge growth potential. 
Fish farming and agriculture, for instance, remain an expanding sector 
that has remained viable. It is expected that as Nigeria's population 
grows, individuals with interest in agriculture will take advantage of 
high demand. 
Fashion designing is another sector that has grown tremendously. 
There is a dimension to this growth, beautiful attires with fresh textile 
designs are being sown daily by the young and old. There is a very 
trendy way that clothes are being sewn that has attracted many 
Nigerians to appreciate fashion designers. These new waves of design 
are driving the fashion industry in a way never seen before. SAED has 
therefore been an avenue for connecting the next fashion designers 
with their goals. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Skill Acquisitions and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED): 
231 
 
An interesting aspect of the SAED scheme is the service area. Although 
the scheme tends to appear like a hands-on approach and skill-focused, 
non-concrete aspects of youth development are also being taken into 
consideration.24 In this regard, certifications and capacity building 
through institutes such as the Nigerian Institute of Management (NIM), 
Chartered Institute of Loan and Risk management (CILRM), Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN), and other reputable 
professional bodies have been providing service and management 
focused capacity building training through the scheme.25 This has 
bridged the gap that may have been left in the conventional higher 
institutions, thereby equipping graduates with practical knowledge and 
skills about management in the service sector. 
Comparatively, SAED is different from other youth empowerment 
initiatives such as the National Poverty Eradication Programme 
(NAPEP), Subsidy Reinvestment Programme (SURE- P), and even 
NPower in several regards. First, it is driven by the passion of 
participants who can see themselves in their chosen skills of 
entrepreneurship. This allows them the opportunity to be connected 
with what they do while ensuring they pick areas according to their 
ability and interest. This was a major component that was lacking in 
previous empowerment initiatives. 
Second, SAED is private sector driven. Although the NYSC serves as the 
pivot of the programme, it is the private sector that has the major stake, 
as organisations are the major drivers, trainers, and partners of the 
initiative. More so, the Corps members are trained not as dependents of 
government but as private individuals who are expected to establish 
                                                           24NYSC: Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Department 
https://www.nysc.gov.ng/saed.html 25J. Pritchard, The importance of Soft Skills in Entry-Level Employment and 
Postsecondary Success: Perspectives from Employers and Community Colleges. 
(Seattle, WA: Seattle Jobs Initiative, 2013).  
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                      Jamiu Yusuf Danga 
 232  
 
private enterprises that are profitable and valuable to the Nigerian 
society. 
Third, SAED pursues different funding initiatives on behalf of serving 
Corps members and post-service youths. This funding initiative may be 
in form of soft loans or grants for them to have an avenue to start their 
SMEs. This means, there is no need to pay youths as other schemes 
tend to do. Finally, the encompassing nature of the programme, which 
does not allow for discrimination on any basis, and there is no quota 
arrangement for any region of the country. Rather, what is obtainable is 
that SAED is structured to cover all the Corps members and youth of 
Nigeria from divergent backgrounds and experience. 
Despite the humble achievement of the scheme, some teething issues 
constrain effective actualization of the aims of the scheme. Some of 
these challenges include the lack of adequate awareness of funding 
opportunities; lack of training equipment which is sometimes very 
expensive or difficult to own by trainers; location of post-camp trainers 
which could be far away from that of the training during the entire 
service year.26  Nonetheless, Government institutions and partners 
should conduct a needs assessment and gap assessment for a better 
understanding of how to address these key challenges of access to 
microfinance, technology, and mentoring that undermines the program. 
 
Conclusion 
The critical importance of soft and hard skills in the highly competitive 
labour market has driven the interventions of SAED. It is not surprising 
that beneficiaries have utilized the avenue provided by SAED to 
establish entrepreneurship lifelines for themselves, thereby making 
them creators of jobs. Yet, some issues were not highlighted in this 
                                                           26 NYSC: Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Department 
https://www.nysc.gov.ng/saed.html 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Skill Acquisitions and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED): 
233 
 
paper, and they need further probing. These issues include 
microfinance and grants for capital, sharing information that can lead 
to capacity enhancement, and the need to create a database for 
accurate data collection and utilization. It can therefore be concluded 
that since 2012, SAED has led to the drastic development of 
entrepreneurial spirit and skill among youths who have gone ahead to 
make a living for themselves.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                      Jamiu Yusuf Danga 
 234  
 
Bibliography 
 
Primary Sources 
Interviews 
Andrew Angba 32+ Hotel Manager, in ZubaAbuja  on February 15th, 
2021 
Bilkis Ibrahim 30+ Cosmetologist, in Kwara, 13th March 2021 
Hakeem Abdul 33+ Cybercafe Manager in Lokoja on 23, February 2021 
Justin B. 34+ Fish Farmer, at Emerald Garden, Garki Abuja, 19th 
February 2021 
KaluOme 31+ Fashion Designer at Anambra state, 16th February 2021 
Maryam Aliyu, 24+ cosmetologist, Interviewed in Mararaba, Nasarawa 
State Jan 23rd, 2021  
Peter Usman, 30+ Photographer in Utako Market, Abuja, 10th February 
2021 
 
Secondary Sources 
Published works 
Adebayo, A. A. “Youths' unemployment and crime in Nigeria: A nexus 
and implications for national development.” International 
Journal of Sociology and Anthropology, (2013).350-357. 
Chinedu S.N. et al “Skincare Product Usage: Implications on Health and 
Wellbeing of Africans” Journal of Applied Sciences 13(3) 
(2013): pp: 430-436 
Ehrmann, T. Windsperger, J. Cliquet, G.  &Hendrikse  G. (Eds.), Network 
Governance . (Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer Berlin, 2013).  
Emeh, I. E.-J.,  Nwanguma, E. O.,  &Abaroh , J. J. “Engaging Youth 
Unemployment in Nigeria with Youth Development and 
Empowerment Programmes; The Lagos State in 
Focus”Interdisciplinary Journal of Contemporary Research in 
Business, 4(5), (2012). 1125-1141. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Skill Acquisitions and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED): 
235 
 
Emeh, I. E.-J., Nwanguma, E. O., &Abaroh, J. J, “Engaging Youth 
Unemployment in Nigeria with Youth Development and 
Empowerment Programmes; The Lagos State in Focus. 
“Interdisciplinary Journal of Contemporary Research in 
Business, 4(5), . (2012). 1125-1141. 
Heidelberg. Ucbasaran, D., Westhead, P., Wright, M., & Flores, M. “The 
nature of entrepreneurial experience, business failure and 
comparative optimism”. Journal of Business Venturing, 25(6), 
(2010): pp. 541–555 
Henry S.H.  “The concept of entrepreneurship economic development”   
Journal of Economic Issues, Vol. 2, No. 2 (Jun., 1968), pp. 228-
232 
Karl Wohlmuth; Reuben Adeolu Alabi; Phillippe Burger. New growth 
and poverty alleviation strategies for Africa: B and regional 
Perspectives . (LIT:  Verlag Münster,  2008) pp. 60–61 
Njoku, A.,&Ihugba, O.  “Unemployment and Nigerian Economic Growth 
(1985-2009).” International Conference on Teaching, Learning 
and Change (2011): pp. 1-11. IATEL 
Noe, R.A.,  Hollenbeck, J.R.,  & Gerhart, B. Fundamental of Human 
Resource Management. New York: McGraw-Hill, 2015)  
Oluwatobi A.A. et al “Possible Aquaculture Development in Nigeria: 
Evidence for Commercial Prospects” Journal of Agricultural 
Science and Technology B 7 (2017): pp. 194-205 
Oye, O N. D.,  Inuwa, I.,  & Ahmad, M. S. “Unemployment in Nigeria: 
Implication on the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) Over the 
Years.”  International Journal of Economic Research, 2(1), 
(2011).66-71. 
Patactsil F.F.  &Tablatin C.L. “ Exploring the Importance of Soft Skills 
and Hard Skills as Perceived by IT Internship Sudents and 
Industry: A Gap Analysis. “ Journal of Technology and Science 
Education 7(3) (2017): 247-368 
https://doi.org/10.3926/jotse.271;  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                      Jamiu Yusuf Danga 
 236  
 
Pritchard, J. The importance of Soft Skills in Entry-Level Employment 
and Postsecondary Success: Perspectives from Employers and 
Community Colleges. (Seattle, WA: Seattle Jobs Initiative, 2013).  
Singh G. & Singh, S.  “Malaysian Graduates’ Employability Skills.” 
UNITAR e-Journal 4.1, (2008): pp: 15-45. Available online at: 
http://repository.um.edu.my/66328/1/UNITAR%20E-
JOURNAL _Gurvinder %20%26%20Sharan   
Ulhøi, J. P. “The social dimensions of entrepreneurship” Technovation, 
25(8), . (2005): 939–946. 
Zhao, L.Y. Lee,  S. & Chen, L. “Entrepreneurial Orientation, 
Organizational Learning, and Performance: Evidence From 
China.” Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice, 35(2), (2011): 
pp. 293–317. 
Internet Sources  
 http://www.napep.gov.ng;  
NYSC: Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Department 
https://www.nysc.gov.ng/saed.html 
https://www.npower.org/ 
Kennedy, J. Hard skills, soft skills important to career success. (2016). 
Available online at: http://www.chicago 
tribune.com/classified/sns-201512021000--tms--careersntp--
h-bb20151209-20151209- column.html  
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Role of National Youth Service Corps Scheme in the Development... 
237 
 
 11 1111 11    
    The Role of National Youth Service Corps Scheme in 
the Development of Human Capacity in Nigeria 
 
 
Onuorah Onyeka Leo 
 
 
Introduction 
Over the years, different programmes have been initiated to tackle an 
exacting situation in Nigeria and other parts of the world. Such 
programmes could be an attempt to curb insecurity, improve food 
production, plummeting unemployment, among others. Besides, these 
initiated programmes were aimed towards a given set of people in the 
society such as the educated youth and an example of such programme 
is the National Youth Service Corps scheme. The National Youth Service 
Corps commonly referred to as “NYSC” is a scheme by the Nigerian 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                 Onuorah Onyeka Leo 
238 
 
Government to engage Nigerian graduates of tertiary institutions in 
national development.  
Based on the foregoing, it becomes essential that no country of the 
world neglects the necessary development of the skills, knowledge 
base, education, competencies, and the strategic alignment of its human 
resources, communities, businesses, and other institutions to national 
development without determined endeavor to effective human capacity 
building and development which are paramount for overall sustainable 
development. According to Isola and Alani, Humans and their capacity 
identification and development remains the centre of the creation of 
goods and services, advancement in science and technology, economics, 
agriculture, military; and above all value creation in all spheres of 
human endeavour1. Therefore, the development of human capacity as a 
development strategy must aim at improving skills for executing vital 
functions, solving problems, defining and achieving objectives and 
focusing on building the individual’s knowledge base, skills, attitudes, 
competencies, abilities while at the same time expanding and 
strengthening network of individuals and institutions by creating a 
pool of talents which will potentially and significantly improve 
sustainable development practices. 
According to Onyishi, the goal of the NYSC scheme includes developing 
youths especially graduates with sound minds and result oriented goals 
that are driving towards the actualization of national cohesion and 
unity and to incorporate national coexistence. It is an exercise that 
develops the individual minds and makes them bring out their best for 
service for national development and nation-building2.However, for the 
                                                           1W.A. Isola, and R.A. Alani, ‘Human Capital Development and Economic Growth: 
Empirical Evidence from Nigeria.’Asian Economic and Financial Review, 2(7): 
(2012): pp: 813 - 827. 2A. O. Onyishi, ‘Youth and National Development in Nigeria: An Analysis of 
National Youth Service Scheme: 1999 – 2000.’International Journal of Modern 
Political Economy, 2(1), (2011): 87 – 102.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Role of National Youth Service Corps Scheme in the Development... 
239 
 
NYSC, some enormous challenges such as underemployment and 
unemployment confronting Nigeria, has made it necessary to expand 
operation of the Scheme to address these emerging challenges3. 
In the country today, there is an escalating rate of poverty, 
unemployment among graduates and other social vices that have 
bedevilled the society and the youth specifically. Deebom and Okwelle 
stated that these may have resulted from the lack of appropriate skill 
acquisition by graduates and the youths in general4. Furthermore, there 
has been an upsurge of the unemployment level in Nigeria; as at April, 
2018, the unemployment rate in Nigeria is 18.80%. This figure is 
relatively high if compared with countries like India (3.4%), Mexico 
(3.20%), Indonesia (5.50%), Turkey (10.40%), and Brazil (12.60%)5.  
Ehirheme and Ekpenyong observed that most of Nigerian graduates 
upon completion of the compulsory one-year national service remain 
jobless after 5 years thereby causing an increase to the unemployment 
rate and the society at large6.It is for this purpose that the author of this 
chapter  decided to take a look at the imperatives of effectual human 
capacity development in Nigeria. At this juncture, it is pertinent to ask 
the questions, "What are the challenges of human capacity 
                                                           3C. Okafor, & J.KAni,.’The National Youth Service Corps Programme and Growing 
Security Threat in Nigeria. Africa’s Public Service Delivery and Performance Review, 
2(2),2014): 149-164.  4Deebom, M. T. & Okwelle, P. C. (2016).Empowering Rural Youths for Maximum 
Societal  Impact through Skills Acquisition Programme in Ogoni Area of Rivers 
State.African Journal of Historical Sciences in Education, 12(1), 222 – 250.  5 National Bureau of Statistics. Indices of Poverty, unemployment and poverty in 
Nigeria, 2019 6P. E Erhirheme, and L. E.Ekpenyen. Assessment of opinions of student on the 
implementation of Entrepreneurship in selected Nigeria tertiary institution in Edo, 
Delta,  Lagos, Ogun states. Paper Presented at an international conference in 
African indigenous Research and development initiatives at the Goodness 
Convention Centre, Johannesburg, South African, 14th -16th March, 2012 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                 Onuorah Onyeka Leo 
240 
 
development in Nigeria? and what is the significant relationship 
between the National Youth Service Corp Scheme and the development 
of Human Capacity in Nigeria? Lastly, what strategies are best suited 
for improving human capacity development in Nigeria? This study is 
anchored on these research questions and an attempt is made in 
providing feasible answers to the questions. 
 
An Overview of Human Capacity Development  
It is a truism that human resources and their intrinsic capacities are the 
sole and centre of development. From the primordial era to the period 
of the dark ages and to the ancient civilization of Rome, Athens, and 
Egypt where human capacity development for leadership, athleticism, 
war, education, especially philosophy and science took centre stage. 
Human capacity building and development has generated greater 
attention to the extent that international development agencies have 
set standards and measures for enhancing human capacity, its building, 
and development. It follows that human capacity and capacity building 
are some of the developmental indices of any nation. 
According to the New International Webster Comprehensive 
Dictionary, human capacity is the adequate mental power to receive, 
understand, and also the ability, talent, and capability inherent in 
individuals. Human capacities rooted in the human capital is the 
aggregate stock of knowledge, habits, social and personality attributes, 
including creativity, embodied in their ability to perform one or more 
of multifarious activities so as to produce economic value7. Human 
capacity as an epithet of the human capital represents the driving force 
of the development of mankind and the potentials for transformation, 
innovation and sustainability. 
                                                           7Erhirheme, and L. E. Ekpenyen. Assessment of opinions of student..’ 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Role of National Youth Service Corps Scheme in the Development... 
241 
 
Human capacity development is seen by the World Bank as the proven 
ability of vitals take holders in a society to achieve socio-economic 
goals on their own. This is established through the functional presence 
of a combination of factors such as: viable institutions and respective 
organizations; commitment and vision of leadership; financial and 
material resources; skilled human resources. Human capacity 
development involves human resource development of nations or 
organizations and fostering the materialization of an overall policy 
environment beneficial to the creation of suitable responses to rising 
needs.  
Human capacity development refers to the art of educating people to 
extract their potentials and instinctive abilities for the benefit of 
society. Expansively, human capacity development involves the process 
of intensification of the skills, knowledge, competencies, and abilities in 
an individual to survive, adapt and thrive in an evolving world. 
According to Etuk, human capacity development is the process of 
educating and training people for productive employment role8 and 
Ushie describes it as a process which deals with the development of 
human competence, skills, and attitude for meeting the demands of the 
nation occupationally, professionally, administratively and technically. 
Human capacity development is of great value to any nation in the 
world9.  
From the foregoing, human capacity development is much more than 
training but a process of transformation; for this reason, it is about 
managing transformations, individual capacities, institutional capacity 
                                                           8E. J. Etuk, ‘Education and manpower development in Nigeria.’In O. E. Uya, D. 
Denga, J. Emeh, & J. Okoro. (Eds.) Education for sustainable democracy: The 
Nigerian experience. (2004). Pp.167-177  9E. M.,Ushie. ‘Education and effective human resource development in 
organizations.’ In O. E. Uya, D. Denga, J. Emeh & J. Okoro (eds.) Education for 
sustainable democracy.  The Nigerian experience. (Pp.222-236) Calabar, Nigeria: 
University of Calabar Press. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                 Onuorah Onyeka Leo 
242 
 
and a society’s capacity change over time. Capacity development is the 
element that gives variability, plasticity and functionality of individuals 
to adapt to changing demands.  
 
Human Capital Theory as a Theoretical Framework of Analysis 
This study is anchored on the human capital theory as a theoretical 
framework of analysis. Human capital theory relies on the postulation 
that formal education is exceedingly instrumental and essential to 
develop the productive capacity of a populace. In diminutive terms, 
human capital theorists argue that an educated populace is a 
productive populace. Human capital theory emphasizes on how 
education fosters the productivity and efficiency of workers by 
improving the level of cognitive stock of economically productive 
human capability, which is a product of innate abilities and investment 
in human beings.  
Human Capital Theory (HCT) agrees that investment in human capital 
will lead to greater economic outputs. However, the validity of the 
theory is occasionally difficult to attest and incongruous. In the past, 
economic potency was principally dependent on substantial physical 
assets such as land, factories and equipment. Labor was an 
indispensable element, but increases in the value of the business came 
from investment in capital equipment. Modern economists seem to 
concur that education and health care are the key to improving human 
capital and ultimately increasing the economic outputs of the nation10. 
In the contemporary economy, solid tangible assets may not be as vital 
as investing in human capital. Evidently, Thomas Friedman, in his 
winning book, The World is Flat 2007, wrote expansively about the 
significance of education in the contemporary economy. Friedman, not 
                                                           10G. S. Becker, Human Capital: A Theoretical and Empirical Analysis with Special 
Reference to Education (3rd Ed.). (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1993 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Role of National Youth Service Corps Scheme in the Development... 
243 
 
to be confused with the famous economist Milton Friedman, is a 
journalist. His popular book has uncovered millions of people to human 
capital theory. The term itself is not introduced, but evidence as to why 
people and education (human capital) are vital to a nation's economic 
success, is a common reoccurring theme in the book. Human capital 
theory stresses the connotation of education (human capital) as the key 
to adequate participation in the contemporary economy. A report by 
the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), 
claims that the radical changes to the public and private sectors of the 
economy introduced over recent years in response to globalization will 
be severe and disturbing to many established values and procedures. 
The OECD also boldly asserts that internationalism is a means to 
improve the quality of education. In keeping with human capital theory, 
it has been argued that the overall economic performance of the OECD 
countries is increasingly more directly based upon their knowledge 
stock and their learning capabilities. Clearly, the OECD is attempting to 
produce a new role for education in terms of human capital subject 
required in economized institutions. 
The progress of a nation as regards human capacity development is in 
principle dependent upon the physical and human capital stock. 
Consequently, recent social research focuses on the behavioural 
sciences of humanity in relation to economic productivity. In the main, 
human capital represents the assets each individual develops to 
enhance economic productivity. Additionally, human capital is 
concerned with the wholesome adoption of the policies of education 
and development. In short, the human capital theorists argue that an 
educated population is a productive population. Human capital theory 
emphasizes how education increases the productivity and efficiency of 
workers by increasing the level of cognitive stock of economically 
productive human capability, which is a product of innate abilities and 
investment in human beings. The provision of formal education is seen 
as a productive investment in human capital, which the proponents of 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                 Onuorah Onyeka Leo 
244 
 
the theory have considered as equally or even more equally worthwhile 
than that of physical capital. 
According to Babalola, the wisdom behind investment in human capital 
is based on three arguments: 
i.  The new generation must be given the appropriate parts of the 
knowledge which has already been accumulated by previous 
generations. 
ii.  The new generation should be taught how existing knowledge 
should be used to develop new products, to introduce new 
processes and production methods and social services; 
iii. People must be encouraged to develop entirely new ideas, 
products, processes, and methods through creative 
approaches11. 
Based on the importance of education, the concept of human capital has 
been brought to the forefront of many discourses in the field of 
economic growth and development. Studies have shown that 
improvements in education accelerate productivity and contribute to 
the development of technology, thus improving human capital.Babalola 
(2003) asserts that the contribution of education to economic growth 
and development occurs through its ability to increase the productivity 
of an existing labor force in various ways. 
In order to boost human development in the society, it is essential to 
apply the theory of human capital to educational systems. Through 
such means, productivity is improved and sustained based on an 
increased and diversified labor force. It has been proven that the 
human capital theory and educational systems work magnificently for 
the development of persons and nations at large, particularly 
developing nations. The human capital theory emphasizes the need for 
                                                           11H. Babalola, Economic Growth and Human Development (Nsukka, University 
Press, 2003), 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Role of National Youth Service Corps Scheme in the Development... 
245 
 
policymakers to allocate significant resources to the expansion of 
educational systems, while some governments may be unenthusiastic 
to invest in education, the positive returns from this investment will 
considerably outweigh the costs. Many of the developing nations have 
thus realized that the principal mechanism for developing human 
knowledge is the education system. Thus, they invest huge sums of 
money in education, not only as an attempt to impart knowledge and 
skills to persons, but also to impart values, ideas, attitudes, and 
aspirations which may be in the nation's best developmental interest. 
The educational system is used tentatively in relation that graduates 
who go for NYSC are products of the education system in the country, 
thus; investment in education invariably impacts the quality of 
graduates going to NYSC scheme. 
 
National Youth Service Corp Scheme and Human Capacity 
Development 
During the Gowon regime in 1973, the National Youth Service Corps 
Scheme was introduced to address post war policies of reconstruction, 
rehabilitation, reconciliation, and fostering of togetherness in the 
country. The Scheme was established with a view to giving appropriate 
support and development of common ties and endorsement of national 
unity among youths. A major expectation of the scheme is that the 
corps members should be posted to states away from their original 
homes (states of origin), where they are expected to relate with people 
from other ethnic groups and learn to appreciate the culture of such 
people. The posting was such that graduates must not be allowed to 
serve in their biological state of origin12. 
The objectives of the NYSC scheme are premeditated to be communally 
reinforcing to guarantee systemic and institutional efficiency of the 
                                                           12M.O., Ogundele, A.O.,Sofoluwe, & D.J. Kayode‘Integrating Entrepreneurship 
Skills Acquisition in to National Youths Service Corps Programme in 
Nigeria.’Journal of Entrepreneurship and Management, 2(3),(2012). 24-28.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                 Onuorah Onyeka Leo 
246 
 
scheme and human capacity development in Nigeria. The mobilization 
of youths for economic and socio-cultural development is also driven 
by the need to prepare future leaders with a positive ethos for national 
cohesion, development and self-reliance13. In this regard, several 
studies consider the NYSC as a corridor and podium that improves 
youth transition into productive adulthood and effective citizenship14. 
The expected outcomes of youth participation in the NYSC scheme 
include but is not limited to psychosocial and15,character 
development16; interethnic tolerance through enhanced cognitive and 
perceptual shifts that seeks to eliminate discriminatory practices and 
manage conflicts17; creation of platforms for youths to gain practical 
experience, reflexive learning and exit opportunities; competence, 
skills (both soft and technical), and social capital development18; 
improved levels of patriotism and citizenship through awareness, 
loyalty, and sense of belonging19; entrepreneurship development 
                                                           13H., Perold, L.A., Graham, E.M., Mavungu, K., Cronin, L. Muchemwa, and B.J. 
Lough, ‘Colonial Legacy of International Voluntary Service’ Community 
Development Journal, vol. 48(2); (2013): 179-196. 14E. Obadare ‘Statism, Youth and Civic Imagination: A critical Study of the National 
Youth Service Programme in Nigeria, CODESRIA Monograph Series (Dakar: 
CODESRIA, 2010) 15 C. Bodley-Bond, and K. Cronin, National youth service, employability, 
entrepreneurship and sustainable livelihoods: Overview of the national youth 
service landscape in Sub-Saharan Africa.(Washington DC: Innovation in Civic 
Participation. 2013) 16 ICP National Youth Service Project on Employability, Entrepreneurship and 
Sustainable Livelihoods in Sub-Saharan Africa: Synthesis Report. (Washington DC: 
Washington DC: Innovation in Civic Participation, 2013) 17T.A. Olaiya, Youth and Ethnic Movements and their Impacts on Party Politics in 
ECOWAS Member States, Sage Open, (2014): p. 1-12. 18Eberly, D.J. (2008): National Youth Service: An Institution for Building and 
Sustaining Peace. In Caforio, G., Kummel, G. and Purkayastha, B. (eds.) (2008): 
Armed Forces and Conflict Resolution: Sociological Perspectives, p.383-392. 19 Raimi, L. and Alao, O. (2011): Evaluation of the economics (cost and benefits) of 
National Youth Service Corps for sustainable development in Nigeria, 
Humanomics, Vol. 27(4), 270-281. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Role of National Youth Service Corps Scheme in the Development... 
247 
 
through orientation programmes; as well as, deployment and usage of 
youth capabilities solely for national interest and economic 
development needs. 
In Nigeria, there is scarcely, no facet of the economic, social and cultural 
life the NYSC scheme has not impacted meaningfully. Distinctively, the 
scheme offers numerous graduates an entry point into the labour 
market and many devoted corps members have obtainable 
employment in their various places of primary assignment. These are 
graduates who would ordinarily have been unemployed and badly 
informed of the opportunities that exist in other parts of the country. 
The nexus between National Youth Service Corp Scheme and human 
capacity development cannot be overemphasized. Therefore, the role of 
NYSC in human capacity development in Nigeria is intrinsic and cannot 
be directly measured when compared and contrasted with other forms 
of resources such as material, land, minerals resources, and other raw 
materials. It represents the manifestations in terms of the wealth of the 
nation, material and social well-being of the general public, the 
effectiveness of institutions and systems as well as the quality of 
human development indices that can be assessed. The human capital 
condition of a country unswervingly influences and associates with 
economic and social indicators such as gross domestic product (GDP), 
income per capita, the balance of trade, life expectancy, literary rate, 
level of industrialization, and the quality of infrastructural provisions. 
It can also have an immense impact on political stability, national 
peace, and as well as the prevailing philosophy. 
The more a country has knowledgeable, skilled and resourceful 
persons contributing to national growth and development, the higher 
                                                                                                                                       
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                 Onuorah Onyeka Leo 
248 
 
the value of the human capital of that country20. The significance of the 
human capital asset of a country is a function of measure, quality as 
well as the operating environment. A country with high population can 
only have a higher potential for human capital development and 
considerable input and hard work are required to bring to the fore that 
potential in order to achieve human capacity development. Notable 
inputs are a sound and vibrant education system, motivational 
operating environment and support services. This chapter make bold 
to postulate the NYSC scheme as a significant input capable of 
impacting the country's human capacity development. The scheme 
does not fall short in building an apt balance and critical mass of human 
resource base and providing enabling environment for all persons to be 
fully engaged and contribute efforts to national development. It also 
provides opportunities to graduates to develop to their maximum 
potentials via education, training and motivation as well as creating the 
enabling environment for them to participate wholly in National 
development. All effort to increase human knowledge, enhance skills 
and productivity and stimulate resourcefulness of citizens depicts an 
effort in human capacity development. 
 
Challenges of Human Capacity Development in Nigeria 
In a developing country such as Nigeria, the challenge of human 
capacity development is enormous. The level of achievements by 
developed countries with regards to human capacity development 
cannot be compared with that of the developing countries.  Nigeria is 
embodied with various challenges such as high population, diverse 
ethnic and socio-cultural groups, corrupt governance; all these make 
                                                           20C.K. Chikwe, R.Ogidi, .C.,Reuben and K. Nwachukwu Challenges of Research and 
Human Capital Development in Nigeria. Journal of Education and Practice. Vol.6, 
No.28, (2015) 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Role of National Youth Service Corps Scheme in the Development... 
249 
 
effective human capacity development even more daring. Below are 
inherent challenges of human capacity development in Nigeria: 
Brain Drain: This seems to be a major challenge in Nigeria, as non-
commitment at various levels of the government to human capacity 
development poses a major threat that has resulted in brain drain to 
universities in Nigeria. The issue of brain drain from the universities is 
a resultant effect of lack of motivation for lectureship post amongst 
students in Nigeria. Again, the gap in the number of trained 
professionals and the number affianced can be accounted for by "Brian 
Drain", low-capacity utilization and inauspicious working environment. 
Nigeria's best brains have been lost to other countries owing to high 
rate of unemployment and poor remunerations in the country. The 
depressing implications of this regarding Nigeria's human capacity 
development are overwhelming. This is an enormous challenge to the 
country that aims to be among the developed nations of the world in 
2020. 
In Nigeria, the resources and market for industrialization are apparent 
however, the poor administrative capacity and feeble technological 
institutions constitute major constraints, in a country where the 
education and other training institutions are not geared to the 
development of national capability, more productive technology cannot 
be engaged. This means that human capacity development institutions 
must be strengthened to develop the needed capacity for the country’s 
development. 
 
Underemployment: This factor is another inherent challenge to 
Nigeria's human capacity development and effective utilizationpolicies 
encompassing balanced and progressive educational development and 
the creation of an enabling environment for the full and useful 
engagement of yield of the education system. It is worthy to note that 
merely producing large number of graduates is not apt, rather such 
graduates must be empowered and supported by enabling polices and 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                 Onuorah Onyeka Leo 
250 
 
working environment, in order to become competent service providers, 
job and wealth creators. The case in Nigeria is that the graduates of our 
educational system are mostly under-employed due to non-availability 
of jobs and in unfavorable environment for job creation and self-
empowerment. Underemployment consists of both open and disguised 
unemployed. Open unemployed represents those who are working less 
than the normal hours, while disguised unemployed represents those 
whose contribution to output is less than what they can produce by 
working for normal hours of work per day21. Yet again those who 
concentrate in particular areas tend to divert their skills to other areas 
where they did not have training or education; whereas some take on 
jobs less than the ones they are qualified for. All these vices are forms 
of underemployment in the country and pose threat to human capacity 
development. 
 
Low Rating in Human Development Indices: The Nigeria's socio-
economic feat and rating inhuman development indices which 
represents a mirror image of its human capital status is rather low and 
contemptible of a country with enormous natural resources and human 
capital potentials.  
The Human Capital Index measures countries’ ability to maximize and 
leverage their human capital endowment. The index assesses learning 
and employment outcomes across 5 distinct age groups, on a scale from 
0 (worst) to 100 (best), and assesses 124 economies representing 
between 92% of the world’s people and 98% of its GDP. 
Nigeria is the most populated black nation in the world with an 
estimated population of about 201 million, loaded with biodiversity 
and rich natural and mineral resources including crude oil and natural 
                                                           21M. L. Jhingan, The economics of development and planning. (Delhi: Vrinda 
publishers: 2007). 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Role of National Youth Service Corps Scheme in the Development... 
251 
 
gas. With all these endowments, Nigeria is expected to have a robust 
and vibrant economy and among the leading countries of the world, 
have at least a medium quality life index and well above the average of 
human development indices. Regrettably, this is not the case as Nigeria 
is grouped among poor under-developed countries in the world. The 
implication is that human capacity development is greatly affected. 
 
Conclusion 
Human capacity development is the empowerment of people which 
comprises their ability, will and skill to initiate, plan, manage, 
undertake, organize, budget, monitor/ supervise and evaluate project 
activities. This holds consequently that capacity development of an 
individual which takes the form of education as key information 
provider and character moulder, integrated training, skill acquisition, 
knowledge, networking, continuous learning and human resource 
development have always served as the bedrock of individual, 
institutional and national development22. It is therefore a truism that 
for apt human capacity development, effective educational policies, 
funding and infrastructure must become the foundations of national 
development plans. Such a policy should as well incorporate the 
strategies for Technological Capacity Building (TCB) as a continuous 
social process. To develop this capability, a nation, therefore, needs to 
have the appropriate policy, building the necessary institutions and 
structures which must be sustainable. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           22S. Mallick, ‘Capacity Building: Concept, Definition and Methodology for Self-
Assessment. Conference Proceedings of Human Resource Roadmap and Capacity 
building for new and expanding nuclear power programme.(2013). 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                 Onuorah Onyeka Leo 
252 
 
Bibliography 
 
Babalola, H. Economic Growth and Human Development (Nsukka, 
University Press, 2003), 
Becker, G. S. Human Capital: A Theoretical and Empirical Analysis with 
Special Reference to Education (3rd Ed.). (Chicago: University 
of Chicago Press, 1993 
Bodley-Bond, C. and K. Cronin, National youth service, employability, 
entrepreneurship and sustainable livelihoods: Overview of the 
national youth service landscape in Sub-Saharan Africa. 
(Washington DC: Innovation in Civic Participation. 2013) 
Chikwe, C.K.  R. Ogidi, .C., Reuben and K. Nwachukwu Challenges of 
Research and Human Capital Development in Nigeria. Journal of 
Education and Practice. Vol.6, No.28, (2015) 
Deebom, M. T. & Okwelle, P. C. (2016).Empowering Rural Youths for 
Maximum Societal  Impact through Skills Acquisition 
Programme in Ogoni Area of Rivers State. African  Journal of 
Historical Sciences in Education, 12(1), 222 – 250.  
Eberly, D.J. National Youth Service: An Institution for Building and 
Sustaining Peace.  In Caforio, G., Kummel, G. and 
Purkayastha, B. (eds.) (2008): Armed Forces and  Conflict 
Resolution: Sociological Perspectives, (2008): p.383-392. 
Emeh & J. Okoro (eds.) Education for sustainable democracy.  The 
Nigerian experience. (Pp.222-236) Calabar, Nigeria: University 
of Calabar Press. 
Erhirheme, P. E and L. E. Ekpenyen. Assessment of opinions of student 
on the implementation of Entrepreneurship in selected Nigeria 
tertiary institution in Edo, Delta, Lagos, Ogun states. Paper 
Presented at an international conference in African indigenous 
Research and development initiatives at the Goodness 
Convention Centre, Johannesburg, South African, 14th -16th 
March, 2012 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Role of National Youth Service Corps Scheme in the Development... 
253 
 
Etuk, E. J.  ‘Education and manpower development in Nigeria.’ In O. E. 
Uya, D. Denga, J. Emeh, & J. Okoro. (Eds.) Education for 
sustainable democracy: The Nigerian experience. (2004). 
Pp.167-177  
ICP National Youth Service Project on Employability, Entrepreneurship 
and  Sustainable  Livelihoods in Sub-Saharan Africa: 
Synthesis Report. (Washington DC: Washington DC: Innovation 
in Civic Participation, 2013) 
Isola, W.A.  and Alani, R.A. ‘Human Capital Development and Economic 
Growth: Empirical Evidence from Nigeria.’ Asian Economic and 
Financial Review, 2(7): (2012): pp: 813 - 827. 
Jhingan, 1 M.L The economics of development and planning. (Delhi: 
Vrinda publishers: 2007). 
Mallick, S.  ‘Capacity Building: Concept, Definition and Methodology for 
Self- Assessment. Conference Proceedings of Human 
Resource Roadmap and Capacity building for new and 
expanding nuclear power programme. (2013). 
National Bureau of Statistics. Indices of Poverty, unemployment and 
poverty in Nigeria, 2019 
Obadare E.  ‘Statism, Youth and Civic Imagination: A critical Study of the 
National Youth Service Programme in Nigeria, CODESRIA 
Monograph Series (Dakar: CODESRIA, 2010) 
Ogundele, M.O., Sofoluwe, A.O., & Kayode D.J. ‘Integrating 
Entrepreneurship Skills Acquisition in to National Youths 
Service Corps Programme in Nigeria.’ Journal of 
Entrepreneurship and Management, 2(3), (2012).24-28. 
Okafor, C. & J.K Ani,.’The National Youth Service Corps Programme and 
Growing Security Threat in Nigeria. Africa’s Public Service 
Delivery and Performance Review, 2(2), 2014): 149-164.  
Olaiya, T.A. Youth and Ethnic Movements and their Impacts on Party 
Politics in ECOWAS Member States, Sage Open, (2014): p. 1-12. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                 Onuorah Onyeka Leo 
254 
 
Onyishi, A. O.  ‘Youth and National Development in Nigeria: An Analysis 
of National Youth Service Scheme: 1999 – 2000.’ International 
Journal of Modern Political Economy, 2(1), (2011): 87 – 102.  
Perold, H., Graham, L.A., Mavungu, E.M., Cronin, K., Muchemwa, L. and 
B.J. Lough, ‘Colonial Legacy of International Voluntary 
Service’ Community Development Journal, vol. 48(2); 
(2013): 179-196. 
Raimi, L. and Alao, O. (2011): Evaluation of the economics (cost and 
benefits) of National  Youth Service Corps for sustainable 
development in Nigeria, Humanomics, Vol. 27(4),  270-281. 
Ushie. E. M., ‘Education and effective human resource development in 
organizations.’ In O. E. Uya, D. Denga, J.  
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps Ventures and Socio-Economic Development 
255 
 
 1212 1212    
    National Youth Service Corps Ventures and Socio-
Economic Development 
 
 
Suleiman Bilal Ishaq 
 
 
Introduction 
The National Youth Service Corps Scheme is a national programme for 
all Nigerian youths who had obtained first degrees or Higher National 
Diplomas from the tertiary institutions both locally and abroad. The age 
requirement is for only those who are thirty (30) and below at 
graduation. Also, professionals like Medical Doctors, Lawyers, and 
Pharmacists are allowed to defer their participation in the scheme until 
after the completion of their one year professional apprenticeship 
(Internship). This exception is due to the insistence by the medical and 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                     Suleiman Bilal Ishaq 
256 
 
pharmaceutical regulatory bodies that members must be certified 
before practicing, although lawyers may opt to go for national service 
before the call to Bar or the other way round. The youths are required 
to participate in this scheme mandatorily before seeking for 
employment in Nigeria as the one-year programme is regarded as a 
very essential training period. In other case, it is also required before 
further education or postgraduate studies, except where such graduate 
is exempted on the following grounds; above age limit, having served in 
Armed Forces or in Nigeria Police for more than nine months, a 
member of staff of State Security Services, National Intelligence Agency 
or Defense Intelligence Service, or a holder of National Honour.1 
Other people who are excluded are graduates of part-time or distant 
learning programme. The NYSC scheme since its inception has come up 
with a formidable strategy, a plan that will aid in the meeting of the 
socio-economic needs and the achievement of more equitable 
development across the country. It has been noted that in this area, the 
scheme has recorded a very remarkable success. It is noteworthy to 
ascertain this fact examining their programmes that have led to this 
seaming breakthrough. The NYSC scheme in a bid to contribute to the 
socio-economic development of the country ventured into some 
economic sub-sectors that have not only profited or rendered services 
to the people but has also contributed to national development. The 
NYSC has ventured in Agriculture, Livestock Farms, Agro Based 
Projects, Shoe Factory, Garment Factory, Water Factory and even 
Bakeries and Confectionaries. 
This study therefore, examines the various NYSC ventures and their 
impact on socio-economic development of Nigeria. The work is divided 
into five sections. Apart from the introduction, section one discusses 
the background to the establishment of the NYSC, section two gave an 
                                                           1 T.F. Abdullahi, National Youth Service in developed countries: 
www.nationalyouthservicehtml, Accessed 17/03/2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps Ventures and Socio-Economic Development 
257 
 
overview of the NYSC ventures, section three examines the NYSC 
ventures and their activities, section four discusses the impact of the 
NYSC ventures on the socio-economic development of the country, 
section five discusses the challenges and prospect then, conclusion.  
 
Conceptual Clarification 
Socio-economic development: Socio-economic development is the 
process of social and economic development in a society. Socio-
economic development is measured with indicators such as; GDP, life 
expectancy, literacy and levels of employment. Changes in less-tangible 
factors are also considered such as; personal dignity, freedom of 
association, personal safety and freedom from fear of physical harm, 
and extent of participation in civil society. 
Youth Service: Youth service refers to a non-military, intensive 
engagement of young people in an organized activity that contributes 
to the local, national, or world community. Youth service is widely 
recognized and valued by the society, with minimal compensation or in 
some cases, no compensation to the server. Youth service gives 
opportunities for youth development, youth voice and reflection. This 
may take the form of a youth programme where young people are 
recruited, offered leadership opportunities, participate in activities that 
improve the community, and are trained and mentored. The most 
common age group defined as ‘youth’ is 15-30 years of age, and in other 
parlance, 15-40 years of age. The United Nations defines youth as 15-24 
years of age. The duration of most youths in service for either their 
community or their nation depends on the settings they found 
themselves in. Some communities regard long-range youth service as 
being from six months to two years of service; however, this time range 
can vary with each country’s national youth service policy.2  
 
                                                           2 “Youth Service” National Youth Commission. Accessed 15th March, 2021  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                     Suleiman Bilal Ishaq 
258 
 
The NYSC Ventures: An Overview 
In a bid to improve the scheme and adapt to modern realities of 
corporate institutions and contribute to the economy and society, the 
NYSC has gone into commercial ventures some years after its inception. 
The NYSC established commercial ventures such as Garment factories 
in Minna Niger state and Mgbakwu, Anambra State. The garment 
factories are purposely established with the aim of assisting the scheme 
in producing uniforms in large quantities used by corps members for 
the one year national service. The garment factories, apart from the 
production of uniforms for corps members, also design new patterns 
and samples for contractors. Corps members are also beneficiaries of 
the activities of the factories as some of them are trained in the 
factories. As a consequence, some of these corps members become 
professionals in the act of tailoring as they further pursue the career.3 
Furthermore, to complement the government’s efforts towards 
achieving self-sufficiency in the area of food production in the country, 
and to enable the NYSC to produce food items for consumption during 
orientation exercise, the scheme established integrated farm 
settlements in the six (6) geopolitical zones of the of the country. Apart 
from food production, corps members are equally trained on 
agricultural activities during their service year at the various farm 
settlements. 
 
The NYSC Ventures and their Activities 
The various ventures that were established by the NYSC were 
functional since 1984, ranging from the agricultural venture, livestock 
farming, agro-based projects, but these ventures during this time 
formed a unit under the community development service, not until in 
2012 when they autonomously stood as a department of their own. By 
this time, the NYSC bakery and the NYSC water factory were added to 
the ventures. The essence of these ventures becoming an autonomous 
                                                           3  G. Enegwea and G. Umoden, NYSC… 165 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps Ventures and Socio-Economic Development 
259 
 
department of their own is to keep concentration on the businesses and 
also serve as an avenue for corps members to learn from the businesses 
that are run in the ventures. They engage in learning in the areas of 
production, manufacturing, marketing and general entrepreneurship. 
Also, all the ventures of the NYSC were incorporated as a public limited 
liability company registered under the Corporate Affairs Commission 
as companies under the NYSC.4The core mandate of these ventures 
includes:  
 
Training of Corps members: Some of the corps members at the end of 
their service year were trained and empowered, they benefited from 
the training and those that learnt the skill well are attached to funding 
partners like the Central Bank of Nigeria, Bank of Agriculture, Bank of 
Industry, where loans are provided them for start-up.5 
Generating revenue for the Scheme: The ventures also serve the 
purpose of generating revenue for the Federal Government through the 
Scheme.6  
This section will focus on these NYSC ventures and their activities as 
per its impact on the socio-economic development of the areas in which 
they are situated and its impact on National Development. 
 
Agriculture (Arable Farming): The beginning of food production 
represents a strategic shift in human behavior towards the 
manipulation of the soil environment, and through an influence on the 
composition of plant populations grown in that soil via preferential 
seeding and tending of one or a few species. While cultivation may 
involve a range of practices, and this will tend to select for 
morphological domestication, at least in seed crops, we can define 
                                                           4Musa Ibrahim Abdu, 47, NYSC Official (Zonal Coordinator, Katsina), NYSC Zonal 
Office Funtua, 10thMarch, 2021. 5Musa, Interview Cited  6  Musa, interview Cited  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                     Suleiman Bilal Ishaq 
260 
 
agriculture in relation to the scale of cultivation, its prominence in local 
landscapes and in contributing a major component of human diet. In 
this sense, agriculture is the form of land use that represents a change 
in the landscape, as people regularly cultivate, raise, and focus more 
attention on domestic plants and/or animals. Agriculture creates fields 
for larger-scale production of crops and livestock.7  
In the area of agriculture, it has been reported that the scheme has 
cultivated a minimum of 100 hectares of land in each of the 30 states of 
the federation in the 1980s thus, turning out a large tonnage of food 
annually. Also, over 7000 hectares of farmland have been acquired for 
arable farming in some of the states of the federation including the 
Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. Major crops planted include maize, 
rice, guinea corn, millet, cassava, pineapple, soya beans, sorghum and 
cowpea. The agricultural venture has become a source of challenge for 
some corps members to design simple technology tools for use in the 
case of food production and processing. Some of these tools have 
already gained widespread acceptance, for instance, the famed tomato 
thresher. The successes in the farms have also accelerated the idea to 
establish some agro-based industries.8 Recently, there are four major 
farms which the scheme has focused on. In the area of arable farming, 
these four operational farms are currently very functional, they 
include; to start with, the NYSC farm Saminaka, Rice farm in Shanga 
Local Government Area of Kebbi state. Here, 60 hectares of rice was 
harvested.9 The NYSC management released a press statement that 
affirmed the above information in 2020 where it noted that:  
                                                           7 D.R. Harris, and D. Q. Fuller, Agriculture: Definition and Overview. In 
Encyclopedia of Global Archaeology (Claire Smith, Ed.).Springer, New York.2004, 
pp 104-113. 8G. Enegwea and G. Umoden, NYSC: Twenty years of National Service, (Abuja: 
Gabumo Pub, 1993). 166.  9Musa Ibrahim Abdu, 47, NYSC Official, Interviewed at NYSC secretariat Kano. 10th 
March, 2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps Ventures and Socio-Economic Development 
261 
 
“The NYSC harvested its 60 hectares rice farm in 
Saminaka Shanga Local Government Area of Kebbi 
state, Nigeria. The NYSC farm settlements across the 
country were being enhanced especially with supply of 
equipment and other necessary inputs. The move is 
geared towards harnessing the scheme’s revenue 
generation through reinvigorating its various ventures 
especially rice harvest.”10 
Furthermore, in the area of rice production, other locations that the 
NYSC has rice farms summing up to a total of 90 hectares of farmland of 
both swamp and upland rice include:  
I. Kwali-Abuja 
II. Ezillo-Ebonyi state 
III. IkpeIkot-Nkon Akwa Ibom State 
IV. Garatu/Tagwai-Niger State 
V. Talata MafaraZamfara State.11 
Secondly, the NYSC cassava farm Iseyin in Oyo state. NYSC has Cassava 
farms in some states of the federation which are located in; 
Akunyun/Afon in Kwara state, Emekuku-Emii in Imo, Oyam Dam in 
Ogun and Issua in Edo states.12 In these three states, about 150 
hectares of farmland yields were cultivated. The encouraging yield 
from these prompted the NYSC to engage in Garri processing. In this 
sector, Oyo state became the focal area of NYSC because it provides the  
largest quantity of cassava which in-turn is utilized for the purpose of 
Garri production. From the Oyo farms, the NYSC had harvested over 
                                                           10 Nigerian Tribune “NYSC Commences Harvest of 60 Hectares Rice Farm in Kebbi 
State” Nov 18 2020. 11G. Enegwea and G. Umoden, NYSC: Twenty years of National Service, (Abuja: 
Gabumo Pub, 1993). 166. 12G. Enegwea and G. Umoden, NYSC: Twenty years of National Service… 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                     Suleiman Bilal Ishaq 
262 
 
100 hectares of Cassava over time and it has become a source for 
generating revenue to the government through the NYSC scheme.13 
Furthermore, there is the NYSC Maize and Cowpea farm in Dangulbi, 
Bauchi State. The production of crops in the farms took off in 2017 at 
the NYSC settlement in the village. The initiative was in line with the 
NYSC management’s resolve to restore the scheme’s once vibrant 
agricultural practices. The then Director-General, Brigadier General 
Sulaiman Kazaure, visited the farm to assess the level of progress made 
in the cropping season. The farm had 24 hectares of maize 
intercropped with cowpea. So maize and cowpea were harvested in 
these areas.14 The then Director General said:  
The NYSC management’s decision to resuscitate the 
NYSC farm settlements was aimed at supporting the 
Federal Government’s policy of ensuring food security 
through the encouragement of local production. He also 
expressed satisfaction with the progress made at the 
bauchi farm but remarked that there is room for 
improvement15 
The NYSC Maize and Cowpea farm in Dangulbi, Bauchi State has been a 
top priority to NYSC, this is evidently seen by visits like that of the past 
Director-General, Brigadier General Sulaiman Kazaure which was 
discussed in the preceeding paragraph, more so,In 2019, the current 
Director General of NYSC Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim also paid 
                                                           13AbdulrashidMusa,NYSCSAED resource person, 45+, Interviewed at NYSC 
secretariat Kaduna. 10th March, 2021 14 NYSC, DG Inspects NYSC Farm in Bauchi, 11, December, 2019, 
https;//m.facebook.com/officialnysc/posts/dg-inspects-nysc-farm-in-bauchithe-
director-general-brigadier-general-shuaibu-ib/2606892166059962/, Accessed 
17/3/21. 15 NYSC, DG Inspects NYSC Farm in Bauchi, 11, December, 2019, 
https;//m.facebook.com/officialnysc/posts/dg-inspects-nysc-farm-in-bauchithe-
director-general-brigadier-general-shuaibu-ib/2606892166059962/, Accessed 
17/3/21. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps Ventures and Socio-Economic Development 
263 
 
an unscheduled visit to the NYSC farm in Dangulbi village of Bauchi 
State. The D.G inspected the farm for the training of Corps members 
with interest in Agro-Allied operations.16  The farm manager Mallam 
Zaillani noted that:  
The entire farmland spanned over 150 hectares of land. 
He added that: food crops like beans, cowpea, maize 
and soyabeans have been harvested in large quantities 
from the farm over the years. He also requested for the 
increase and timely funding, including the provision of 
a delivery vehicle and mechanized equipment for the 
farm in order to boost its operation.17  
The Director-General, commended Bauchi State Government for 
releasing the land to NYSC for farming. He said:  
The activities on the farm would stimulate the interests 
of corps members who have passion for mechanized 
farming as it will serve as a training arena and also 
boost the internally generated revenue of the scheme. 
He also warned that those in charge of the NYSC farm 
should be sincere, diligent and loyal to the scheme’s 
management in running the affairs of the farm adding 
that the request of the farm Manager would be looked 
into.”18 
 
                                                           16 NYSC, DG Inspects NYSC Farm in Bauchi, 11, December, 2019, 
https;//m.facebook.com/officialnysc/posts/dg-inspects-nysc-farm-in-bauchithe-
director-general-brigadier-general-shuaibu-ib/2606892166059962/, Accessed 
17/3/21. 17NYSC, NYSC Grow Maize, Cowpea in Bauchi State, 8, August, 2017, 
https;//m.facebook.com/officialnysc/posts/ /1419146368167887/, Accessed 
17/3/21. 18NYSC, NYSC Grow Maize, Cowpea in Bauchi State, 8, August, 2017, 
https;//m.facebook.com/officialnysc/posts/ /1419146368167887/, Accessed 
17/3/21. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                     Suleiman Bilal Ishaq 
264 
 
According to the Guardian Newspaper in 2017, the Director-General of 
NYSC Brigadier General Sulaiman Kazaure said that:  
Arrangements were being made to enable corps 
members interested in farming to access soft loans 
for the 2017 farming season. Inspecting 145 hectares 
NYSC farmland in Bauchi, Kazaure explained that the 
aim was to train corps members in modern farming 
to enable them to become self-reliant after their 
service year. The D.G noted that: talks were ongoing 
between the NYSC and various banks such as bank of 
Industry and Heritage bank in that direction.19 
Other areas where the NYSC possesses farm land for maize cultivation 
include:  
a. Kwali-Abuja 
b. Biu-Borno 
c. Issua-Edo State. 
d. Mayo-Ine-Adamawa State. 
e. Afon-Kwara State. 
f. Garatu/Tagwai-Niger State. 
g. Iseyin-Oyo state. 
h. Itaogbolu-Ondo state 
i. Oyan Dam-Ogun state 
j. Kassa/Riyom-Plateau State.20  
Fourthly, there is the NYSC farm in Kwali which is another major 
concentration of the NYSC where farm produce like groundnut, sesame 
seed, cassava among others. The Nigerian Blue Print Newspaper 
                                                           19 The Guardian News, Corp Members to access loan for 2017 Farming Season, 
27/April/ 2017 20 G. Enegwea and G. Umoden, NYSC: Twenty years of National Service, (Abuja: 
Gabumo Pub, 1993). 166. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps Ventures and Socio-Economic Development 
265 
 
reported in 2014 that: The Former Director General of the NYSC 
Brigadier General Johnson Olawumi: 
Has assured of resuscitating the NYSC farm at Kwali 
Area Council of the FCT, adding that other farm 
settlements would be set up across the country to 
reduce the rate of youth unemployment. Olawunmi 
charged the ventures department of the scheme to 
come up with proposals for the appropriate 
maximization of the use of the entire farmland, rather 
than the small portion of it currently used for cassava 
and groundnut production. The D.G urged the directors 
to include modalities for the posting of corps members 
to the farm for their primary assignment, 
accommodation, security, transportation and other 
incentives.21 
The size of the NYSC farm land Kwali is over 100 hectares and 
cultivated under collaboration on cassava and groundnut production 
between the NYSC and the International Institute for Tropical 
Agriculture (IITA). The collaboration was to enable the IITA use the 
farm for its cassava seedlings multiplication programmes22 .  
Other agricultural projects the NYSC has ventured in include Guinea 
corn and millet production in Kaduna, Kebbi and Katsina States, and 
the Pineapple Orchard in Cross River State. The yields are encouraging 
and expansion programmes aimed at commercial production is 
ongoing. There are also, oil plantations work in Akwa Ibom and Orile 
Owu in Osun States with over 25 hectares.23  It is pertinent to note the 
contributions of collaborative agencies that have assisted the NYSC 
                                                           21Blueprint Newspaper, “Youth Unemployment, NYSC Moves to Revive Farms”, 
July 24, 2014. 22 Jibril Umar, Head of Ventures Kubwa, 50+, Interviewed at Kubwa Abuja, 15/3/21 23 G. Enegwea and G. Umoden, NYSC: Twenty years of National Service, (Abuja: 
Gabumo Pub, 1993). 167. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                     Suleiman Bilal Ishaq 
266 
 
ventures in the area of agriculture, these collaborators includes, but not 
limited to: the NCRI- National Cereal Research Institute, IITA-
International Institute for Tropical Agriculture. These agencies give 
professional advice on agricultural programmes and better yielding 
mechanisms.24 
 
NYSC Livestock Farms 
The NYSC also embarks on livestock farming as a way of contributing to 
national development. These productions include: fish 
farming/fisheries poultry farms, piggery farms and beef fattening 
farms. Fish farming is a form of aquaculture in which fish are raised in 
enclosures to be sold as consumable products. It is the fastest growing 
area of animal food production. In recent times, a large quantity of fish 
consumed globally is raised in the artificial environments. The NYSC 
venturing in fish farming and the fish farming business has been 
lucrative as it has brought in incomes for the scheme. The NYSC has 
fisheries in Rivers, Ogun and Osun states with over 20,000 fingerlings.25  
Poultry farming which involves the raising of birds domestically, 
primarily for meat and eggs is also carried out by the NYSC. Poultry 
farms are established in Benue, Imo and Osun states. There are piggery 
farms established in Lagos, Enugu and Plateau states. For instance, in 
Plateau State piggery alone, there are about 1800 fatteners and over 
200 matured pigs made up of soars and boars. Also, beef fattening 
farms are located in Kano, Bauchi, Sokoto and Katsina state. The beef 
fattening ventures go along with small stock of goats and sheep, for 
instance, at the end of 1992 were: Cattle: Over 250, Sheeps Over 150 
and Goats over 200.26  Those who are engaged in managing these farms 
for NYSC are mostly veterinary doctors and those corps members who 
are specialized in veterinary medicine and other agro-allied courses. 
                                                           24 Jibril Umar, Head of Ventures Kubwa, 50+, Interviewed at Kubwa Abuja, 15/3/21 25G. Enegwea and G. Umoden, NYSC: Twenty years of National Service, (Abuja: 
Gabumo Pub, 1993). 168. 26 G. Enegwea and G. Umoden, NYSC: Twenty years of National Service… 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps Ventures and Socio-Economic Development 
267 
 
This sector also generates revenue and provides a platform for training 
of youths of the NYSC.27  
 
NYSC Agro Based Projects 
In order to gain profit from farms and increase the volume of revenue 
generated by the NYSC, some agro-allied projects were established. 
NYSC also runs some small and medium scale enterprises, thereby 
providing employment, producing goods and boosting the nation’s 
economy. These projects include: 
a. Feed mill: The feed mill was established in 1992 and located in 
Ipaja, Lagos state.The mill produced a total of 1,920.85 metric 
tons of assorted livestock feeds such as layer mash, growers 
mash, broilers finisher mash, chick mash, pig fattener, among 
others. The products from this mill have been serving both the 
scheme and the general public.28  
b. Cassava Processing Plant (Garri): The Garri processing plants 
in Afon, Kwara state and Kwali in FCT Have been meeting the 
demands for the feeding of corps members during orientation 
courses in North Central and south Western states. And 
recently, the NYSCgarri is used in all NYSC camps nationwide.29  
c. Rice miill: The scheme established two rice mills in Ezillo in 
Ebonyi state and TalataMafara in Zamfara State. Some 
stateswithin the geopolitical zones the mills are located in the 
country purchase their de-stoned rice from the mills;all the 
southeastern states of Enugu, Ebony, Anambra, Imo and Abia 
                                                           27Jibril Umar, Head of Ventures Kubwa, 50+, Interviewed at Kubwa Abuja, 15/3/21 28G. EjelaEmenako (ed), 1986. 12 Years of National Youth Service Corps in Nigeria: 
1973 – 1985, (Gabumo Press, Yaba, Lagos). 29S.O. Asein, Call to Service: Twenty Years of the National Youth Service Corps 
Scheme 1973 – 1993, (Sam Bookman, Ibadan). 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                     Suleiman Bilal Ishaq 
268 
 
procure their rice from the rice mill in Ezillo. The products are 
also made available for members of the general public.30 
 
NYSC Garment Factory 
NYSC established two garment factories in Minna, Niger state, and 
Mgbakwu, Anambra state. The two factories produce Physical 
Education (P.E) shorts, the NYSC khaki, plain vests, caps, vests and 
crested vests components of the corps members’ uniform. With 
modern equipment, experienced tailors, and committed staff, the 
factories can produce these kit items for 100,000 corps members per 
annum. Selected corps members also go to the factories for post-camp 
SAED training, thereby, developing their entrepreneurial skills. The two 
factories have impacted positively on the growth and development of 
the nation’s economy by providing gainful employment to youths, as 
well as making available finished products.31These garment factories 
have standard machines and are headed by deputy directors of the 
scheme, the workforce also include staff (NYSC) and also, hired tailors. 
Corps members are also trained there on the skill of tailoring. Some of 
the corps members after their service decide to embark on the learning 
of this skill during their post-service year. As a result, some are 
retained as they become professionals in the skill.32  Regarding the 
commercialization of the NYSC tailoring venture, the NYSC employees 
can render services outside the production zones of the NYSC. But the 
frequent nature of camping activities does not always warrant an 
avenue for that.33 
 
                                                           30 National Directorate Headquarters, National Youth Service Corps 
(1992).Imperatives of National Service in the 90s.A Collection of Speeches (Vol.I), 
Johnmof Printers, Ibadan. 31National Directorate Headquarters, National Youth Service Corps 
(1992).Imperatives of National Service in the 90s.A Collection of Speeches (Vol.I), 
Johnmof Printers, Ibadan. 32 Jibril Umar, Head of Ventures Kubwa, 50+, Interviewed at Kubwa Abuja, 15/3/21 33 Jibril Umar, Head of Ventures Kubwa, 50+, Interviewed at Kubwa Abuja, 15/3/21 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps Ventures and Socio-Economic Development 
269 
 
NYSC Bakery and Pure Water Factory 
As part of efforts to address the challenge of unemployment and 
develop entrepreneurial skills in corps members, NYSC management 
established a bread bakery and pure water factory in Kubwa, FCT. 
These factories employ Nigerian youths, serve as centers for skills 
acquisition for youths, and sources of income for the government. In 
the same vein, Osun state Secretariat has also established a bakery in 
the camp where bread is produced to feed corps members during 
orientation courses. Products from these ventures are also available to 
the members of the public.34The NYSC produce bread alone as plans for 
the productions of other confectionaries are in place. They supply 
bread to the camps as the state coordinators pays for the bread and this 
generates income for the Federal Government through the NYSC. In the 
area of water production, both satchet and bottle water-are also 
produced and supplied to the NYSC camps nationwide.35 
 
NYSC Entertainment: There is also the NYSC entertainment venture 
that operates just the way Kannywood or Nollywood operates. This 
segment of the NYSC is termed as the NYSC wood. This venture is made 
up corps members who are hired for events and they are paid. For 
instance, those that studied theatre arts in the university are active 
participants here, also others who are passionate for the work are 
incorporated like those who have the skills of singing among others. 
Another segment of this venture is the NYSC band. The NYSC bands are 
known as the National Band, they sing during annual cultural festivals 
and other events that concern the youths and the president. They are 
also called upon during celebration times like the independence 
celebration, they also join the Nigerian Army to play band at other 
events.36  To add to the entertainment venture, plans are at advanced 
                                                           34 Agu, U. NYSC and Nigerian Unity: A Critical Appraisal, ACENA Publishers, Enugu, 
Nigeria. 1995. 35Jibril Umar, Head of Ventures Kubwa, 50+, Interviewed at Kubwa Abuja, 15/3/21 36 Jibril Umar, Head of Ventures Kubwa, 50+, Interviewed at Kubwa Abuja, 15/3/21 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                     Suleiman Bilal Ishaq 
270 
 
stage for an NYSC national cultural troupe , made up of talented corps 
members in Arts and Culture. 
 
Impact of NYSC Ventures on socio-economic  
The NYSC since it began its adventurism into operational ventures has 
contributed in one way or the other to socio-economic development of 
the nation. These ventures have been able to generate revenue for the 
government as the policy of generating revenue to the government was 
resuscitated and redoubled with the coming on board of the current 
Director General Brigadier Shuaibu Ibrahim. He noted that the NYSC 
should not become a burden to the government alone, as it can also 
serve as an income generator to the government. As a consequence, all 
proceeds from these ventures are remitted to the federal government 
single treasury account. It has been estimated that as at December 
2020, the NYSC paid over 280 million naira to the T.S.A.37  
Furthermore, corps members who are willing to engage in learning of 
any form of skill regarding what is obtainable at the ventures are given 
the necessary trainings. There are enormous facilities at the ventures 
to tap ideas and learn skills from. There are no charges for any form of 
skill acquisition at the ventures but instead the corps members are 
provided with upkeep stipends in recognition for their hard work. The 
NYSC recorded various successes and is trying to improve on the 
operations of the ventures. The NYSC bread is supplied throughout the 
NYSC camps of the 36 states of the federation including the FCT, and 
the general public. The same goes with the NYSC water and the 
products of the NYSC Garment factory in Minna Niger state. Farming 
which is hitherto detest by the youths has been mechanized and the 
corps members are engaged in the area of machine operations in the 
farms as well as cultivations of Non-corps members are also hired for 
the job description.38 More so, a corps member who takes advantage of 
                                                           37Jibril Umar, Head of Ventures Kubwa, 50+, Interviewed at Kubwa Abuja, 15/3/21 38Jibril Umar, Head of Ventures Kubwa, 50+, Interviewed at Kubwa Abuja, 15/3/21 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps Ventures and Socio-Economic Development 
271 
 
the farming activities, make A living as they use the experience gained 
to establish their businesses. 
 
Challenges and prospects of the NYSC ventures 
The challenges confronting these ventures are not far from the issues of 
inadequate funding that is a bane to the success of organisations. 
Although, most of the NYSC ventures are in the process of revival and 
others are still being managed to meet up with the desired standard 
needed. As noted earlier the venture began autonomous operation 
when the Ventures Department was separated from the CDS 
Department in 2012. As a consequence, the ventures were faced with 
some operational challenges which includes inadequate manpower and 
efficient modern facilities. But The NYSC is working hard to resuscitate 
some of these ventures that have been moribund for a long period of 
time. For instance, the Ezillo rice mill in Eboyi state. These ventures if 
revived within a very short period of time, will contribute to enhance 
revenue generation by the NYSC and will in-turn, contribute to the 
socio-economic development of the nation.     
 
Conclusion 
The contributions of the NYSC to the socio-economic development of 
the nation cannot be overemphasized. This study found out that 
through the NYSC ventures a lot of great enterprises have been put in 
place and it has led to human and capital development. The NYSC 
through its ventures have impacted the lives of youths especially the 
corps members as they have learnt from the various activities at the 
ventures ranging from farming, tailoring, bakery, water production 
among others. This study also found out that the NYSC ventures have 
become a department that has contributed solely to the process of 
revenue generation to the scheme and the federation. 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                     Suleiman Bilal Ishaq 
272 
 
Bibliography 
 
“Youth Service” National Youth Commission. Retrieved 4/26/09. 
Abdullahi T.F,  National Youth Service in developed countries: 
www.nationalyouthservicehtml, Accessed 17/03/2021. 
Abdulrashid Musa, NYSCSAED resource person, 45+, Interviewed at 
NYSC secretariat Kaduna. 10th March, 2021 
Agu U, NYSC and Nigerian Unity: A Critical Appraisal,Enugu: ACENA 
Publishers, 1995 
Asein, S.O Call to Service: Twenty Years of the National Youth Service 
Corps Scheme 1973 – 1993.Ibadan: Sam Bookman, 1993 
Blueprint Newspaper, “Youth Unemployment, NYSC Moves to Revive 
Farms”, July 24, 2014. 
Eberly D.J. National Youth Service in the 20th and 21st centuries. Essay 
prepared for the 4th Global Conference on National Youth 
Service held at Windsor Castle United Kingdom, 
http//.acys.utas.edu.au/Inys/essay.html. 
Egunyomi, A. The National Youth Service Corps: A Bridge to 
Nationalism in Nigeria. Retrieved from 
https://www.cfr.org/blog/national-youth-service-corps-
bridge-nationalism-nigeria.Accssed 23/02.2021. 
Ejela E (ed). 12 Years of National Youth Service Corps in Nigeria: 1973 
– 1985. Lagos:Gabumo Press, 1986. 
Enegwea, G and Umoden, G, NYSC: Twenty years of National Service. 
Abuja: Gabumo Pub, 1993 
Harris, D.R and Fuller, D.Q. Agriculture: Definition and Overview. In 
Encyclopedia of Global Archaeology (Claire Smith, Ed.). 
Springer, New York. 2004, pp 104-113. 
Jibril Umar, Head of Ventures Kubwa, 50+, Interviewed at Kubwa 
Abuja, 15/3/21 
Musa Ibrahim Abdu, 47, NYSC Official (Zonal Coordinator, Katsina), 
NYSC Zonal Office Funtua, 10thMarch, 2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps Ventures and Socio-Economic Development 
273 
 
National Directorate Headquarters, National Youth Service Corps 
(1992).Imperatives of National Service in the 90s.A Collection 
of Speeches (Vol.I), Johnmof Printers, Ibadan. 
Nigerian Tribune “NYSC Commences Harvest of 60 Hectares Rice Farm 
in Kebbi State” Nov 18 2020. 
NYSC, DG Inspects NYSC Farm in Bauchi, 11, December, 2019, 
https;//m.facebook.com/officialnysc/posts/dg-inspects-nysc-
farm-in-bauchithe-director-general-brigadier-general-shuaibu-
ib/2606892166059962/, Accessed 17/3/21. 
NYSC, NYSC Grow Maize, Cowpea in Bauchi State, 8, August, 2017, 
https;//m.facebook.com/officialnysc/posts/ 
/1419146368167887/, Accessed 17/3/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                       NuraIsah Zubairu 
274 
 
 11 1133 33    
    National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs)/Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) Programme in Nigeria 
 
 
NuraIsah Zubairu 
 
 
Introduction 
The introduction of the National Youths Service Corps in Nigeria 
was geared towards achieving some objectives such as national 
reorientation, integration and socio-economic development in 
general. The scheme has made effort in achieving the set 
objectives through its various programmes, which include 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Millennium Development... 
275 
 
orientation course, primary assignment and community 
development service.  
The role of NYSC in the development of Nigeria cannot be over 
emphasized. The scheme has contributed immeasurable to the 
development of Nigeria in various ways. These key areas in which the 
scheme has contributed include the following; orientation programme, 
primary assignment and community development. This paper is a 
historic account of the contribution of the NYSC to the development of 
Nigeria through the MDGs /SDGs CDS. The paper argues that although 
the MDGs have not been adequately achieved throughout the globe, but 
some landmark achievements were made in addressing some of the 
socio-economic challenges facing Nigeria. Thus, with the proclamation 
for the desire to achieve the 2030 developmental goals, NYSC has also 
continued with campaign for the realisation of the goals through the 
MDGs /SDGs CDS. The chapter largely relied on written documents 
such as journal articles, magazines and scheme bulletins. 
 
The NYSC Scheme and National Development 
The scheme was established in 1973 as a post-civil war socio-economic 
and political development programme in Nigeria. It was set up in order 
to serve as a vehicle for mobilising the Nigerian youths towards 
achieving national re-orientation, socio-economic development, unity 
and integration in the country.1 This decision was based on the belief 
that graduate youth ought to be mobilized from different backgrounds, 
with a view to inculcate in them the desired discipline and leadership 
qualities. This was essentially important in preparing the youth corps 
members to have the right sense of patriotism to play key roles in 
                                                           1 F.C.T KOPA: Magazine / Photo Album of the F.C.T  2007 Batch 'B' Corps 
Members, Publication of National Youth Service Corps, Vol. 15, No. 9, September, 
2008, Abuja, p.6. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                       NuraIsah Zubairu 
276 
 
achieving the development objectives of Nigeria.2Discussing the major 
reason that necessitated the establishment of the NYSC scheme, 
Onwere observes that: 
To ease tensions and prejudices among the ethnic 
groups, the Nigerian government established the NYSC 
whose primary aim is to help weave a spirit of oneness 
among the ethnic groups and inculcate national loyalty, 
which should supersede all other loyalties. The NYSC 
thus, represents a massive exercise in national 
integration-an attempt to change the face of Nigeria 
through changing the attitudes of young graduates 
towards fellow nationals and the nation3. 
Onwere tries immensely to link the establishment of the NYSC scheme 
to one of the bad moments in the history of the Nigerian state-the 
Nigerian Civil War of 1967. This was a phenomenon that bedevilled 
most African countries few years after attaining their independence 
from various European colonial governments to which Nigeria was no 
exception. After all, the war had already damaged the peaceful co-
existence of various communities in the country, in the Nigerian State. 
The government on the other hand however, also failed to fulfill its 
promise particularly that related to reconciliation by giving the Igbos 
equal opportunities in all the spheres of life. Onwere therefore, 
presented this view and commented on not only the reasons behind the 
emergence and establishment of the scheme, but to also show the 
necessity of such programme in bringing unity, national integration 
and mutual cooperation between the various ethnic groups living in 
                                                           2 Handbook for Corps Members on Teaching Assignments: Orientation Lecture 
Series, Directorate Head Quarters, Abuja, 1980, p.4.  3Onwere C., ‘National Youth Service Corps Programme and National Integration in 
Nigeria’, (Unpublished PhD Thesis, Department of International and Comparative 
Education, University of London,1992), 93.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Millennium Development... 
277 
 
Nigeria, which is one of the most pluralistic nations on the African 
continent. 
The scheme has carried out its activities through various programmes. 
These include; orientation course for corps members, primary 
assignments and community development. The orientation programme 
is usually a three weeks exercise in which the corps members were 
given professional orientation. During the exercise resource persons 
are invited to the various orientation camps across the country to 
lecture and give practical demonstration on teaching, administration 
among others on young graduates to be posted to the places of primary 
assignments.4 This approach has worked for some years, especially 
when the number of corps members were few. However, with the 
expansion of the scheme and the posting of increasing number of corps 
members who had no teaching experience to assignments in schools, it 
became necessary for the scheme to intensify and improve the 
strategies for ensuring greater attitudinal orientation and competence 
of corps members.5During the orientation, series of lectures, 
workshops as well as military drills were given to the corps members. 
This has impacted positively on the minds of the corps members and it 
has assisted them during their service year and beyond. 
The primary assignment is another important programme of the NYSC 
through which the Scheme carry out its activities. At this period, corps 
members are assigned to work in areas relevant to their field of study 
either in the public or private sector. This activity affords the corps 
                                                           4 Handbook for Corps Members on Teaching Assignments: Orientation Lecture 
Series…, p.5. 5 Handbook for Corps Members on Teaching Assignments: Orientation Lecture 
Series…, p.5. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                       NuraIsah Zubairu 
278 
 
members ample opportunity to contribute their quota to the socio-
economic development of the country.6 
Another important programme of the National Youth Service Corps is 
the Community Development Service CDS where corps members are 
allowed to choose a group, irrespective of their individual course of 
study, execute projects that are relevant to the needs of the host 
communities. Through the CDS, corps members are directly involved in 
community development in one form or another. This has made the 
corps members to be involved in activities such as construction of small 
bridges, primary health care centres, class room blocks and culverts 
amongst others.7This initiative transcends ethnic sentiments and has 
made an average corps member more patriotic to Nigeria as a nation.8 
Akume et al while discussing the role of the CDS to NYSC as a scheme 
and to Nigeria as a whole argue that: 
The CDS requires that corps members use their 
acquired skills to provide services such as education, 
healthcare delivery, rural infrastructural and 
community development, agriculture, science and 
technology and enlightenment campaigns for the 
benefit of their host community…as such, ensuring the 
success of community development service imposes on 
the corps members to wear a spirit coated with 
dedication and enthusiasm irrespective of the 
                                                           6 F.C.T KOPA: Magazine / Photo Album of the F.C.T  2007 Batch 'B' Corps 
Members…, p.6. 
 7 D.O. Arubayi, "Youths in Development: Understanding the Contributions of the 
National Youths Service Corps (NYSC) to Nigeria's National Development", p.90 
and C.  Onwere, "National Youths Service Corps Programme and National 
Integration in Nigeria", PhD Thesis, Department of International and Comparative 
Education, Institute of Education, University of London, 1992. 8 F.C.T KOPA: Magazine / Photo Album of the F.C.T  2007 Batch 'B' Corps 
Members…, p.6. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Millennium Development... 
279 
 
challenges they might face in so far as they are not life-
threatening9.  
It should be noted that, NYSC as discussed by Akume et al has 
developed a plan through which corps members are systematically 
grouped based on their skills and areas of specialization in order to 
bring a positive change to the development of their host communities. 
Through this process, an important bridge is built to link people of the 
Nigerian state, which had suffered some damages through the regional 
and confrontational politics, Civil War of 1967. 
The scheme has no doubt contributed immensely towards the 
promotion of national unity and integration despite all the challenges 
of the modern Nigerian state. The corps members have been trained in 
various disciplines. In this regard, they helped in many ways in 
arresting the major socio-political and economic challenges of their 
host communities.  
 
The Emergence of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) 
The history of the emergence of Millennium Development Goals can be 
traced back to September, 2000 when the Millennium Summit was held 
in New York, United States of America. During this summit, all the 189 
heads of state at the United Nations adopted the Millennium 
Declaration. The declaration outlines eight broad goals which include: 
eradication of extreme poverty and hunger, achieve universal primary 
education, promote gender equality and empower women, reduce child 
mortality, improve maternal health, combat HIV/Aids, malaria and 
other diseases, ensure environmental sustainability and develop a 
                                                           9 Akume, A.T., Solomon, M. and Mohammed, O.A,’ Conflict, the NYSC Programme 
and the Question of Policy Relevance in Present Day Nigeria: An Assessment’, in 
Abdurrahman, D.A., Ogundiya, I.S., Garba, T. and Dankani, I.M. (eds.), 50 Years of 
Nigeria’s Nationhood: Issues and Challenges for Sustainable Development (Ibadan: 
Crown F. Publishers, 2012), 106.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                       NuraIsah Zubairu 
280 
 
global partnership for development.10  The year 2015 was set as bench 
mark for the actualisation of the MDGs.11 
 
National Youth Service Corps and MDGs in Nigeria 
Following the adoption of the Millennium Declaration, Nigeria being a 
signatory to the declaration, made an effort towards realising its goals. 
In the first place, the Federal Government launched its own version of 
the development agenda called National Economic Empowerment 
Strategy (NEEDS) in 2004, in order to address the development 
challenges of the country.12 
The NYSC being a development agency that works with youths also 
keyed in to assist the Federal Government of Nigeria in the campaign 
for the realisation of the MDGs. In August 2005 after a workshop 
organised for NYSC staff and schedule officers by the British Council 
and the World Bank Group, a mandate was given to the schedule 
officers of FCT, Lagos and Kano to arrange, organise and train 60 corps 
members each at the orientation camp, in collaboration with 
facilitators from the World Bank and British Council.13Therefore, in 
September 2005, 60 volunteer corps members were trained as 
Development Knowledge Facilitators (DFKs) in Kubwa NYSC 
Orientation Camps, Federal Capital Territory. These corps members 
were mandated to train Nigerians on development issues as it relates 
to the United Nations MDGs and the National Economic Empowerment 
Strategy (NEEDS), under the umbrella of the Debate to Action 
                                                           10M.A.L.T : NYSC/FCT DTA Magazine by FCT 2006 Batch 'B' Corps Members Maiden 
Edition, Pp 24-25.  11M.A.L.T : NYSC/FCT DTA Magazine by FCT 2006 Batch 'B' Corps Members Maiden 
Edition, p.5. 12FGN,NEEDS: NIGERIA: The National Economic Empowerment and Development 
Strategy Document, National Planning Commission, Abuja, 2004, p.3. 13M.A.L.T : NYSC/FCT DTA Magazine by FCT 2006 Batch 'B' Corps Members Maiden 
Edition, p.3. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Millennium Development... 
281 
 
Community Development Group, otherwise known as MDGs Awareness 
CD group. 14 
The first batch of the volunteer corps members who received training 
as Development knowledge facilitators had a challenging experience in 
kick starting the project. Being the first to extend the message of the 
MDGs to various communities in Nigeria, they faced rejection and 
resentment from various quarters but they remained steadfast which 
enabled them lay solid foundation for the success of MDGs campaign 
CD group in FCT.15 The corps members involved in this progrmme have 
successfully carried out outreach programmes with different themes; 
such as ‘‘you can help achieved MDGs’’, ‘‘MDGs and you’’, ‘‘MDG staking 
in into the communities’’. These are important progrmmes geared 
towards taking MDGs campaign to every society in Nigeria. 
The MDGs CD group under the name Debate to Action has taken the 
MDGs campaign awareness to various communities. Their activities 
certainly enhanced the progress made in the realisation of MDGs in 
Nigeria. This can be adduced from the accomplishments of the Corps 
members in each of the goals of the MDGs: 
First, the NYSC MDGs CD group has contributed immensely to the 
realisation of goal one of the MDGs which was aimed at eradicating 
extreme poverty and hunger. This was done through skill acquisition 
projects where different skills such as assembling of computers, GSM 
repairs, baking and sewing etcetera, were taught to different 
communities as a means of poverty reduction in Nigeria.16 
                                                           14M.A.L.T : NYSC/FCT DTA Magazine by FCT 2006 Batch 'B' Corps Members Maiden 
Edition, p.3. 15M.A.L.T : NYSC/FCT DTA Magazine by FCT 2006 Batch 'B' Corps Members Maiden 
Edition, p.3. 16M.A.L.T : NYSC/FCT DTA Magazine by FCT 2006 Batch 'B' Corps Members Maiden 
Edition, p.3. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                       NuraIsah Zubairu 
282 
 
Similarly, the NYSC MDGs CD group has also made effort towards 
realising goal two of the MDGs which focused on achieving universal 
primary education. The corps members under this CD group have 
identified and sponsored indigent children who dropped out of school 
due to lack of financial resources that will be used to carter for their 
educational needs. The NYSC MDGs/ SDGs Community Development 
group has also made effort towards the realisation of goal three of the 
MDGs, which was to promote gender equality and women 
empowerment. The NYSC/ MDG CD group has carried out public 
awareness campaigns in the Federal Capital Territory for the 
empowerment of women in various sectors of the society and economy 
in Nigeria. The CD group has called on those in authority to give more 
political offices to women as a means of empowering Nigerian 
women.17 
The Debate to Action CDS has also contributed to the effort of Nigerian 
Government in realising goal four of the MDGs, which was aimed at 
reducing child mortality rate. This was done through enlightening and 
educating the people of their host communities on the need to safe 
guard the lives of their infants, by way of following the advice given by 
medical experts such as giving birth in the hospital as well as ensuring 
that children are given the necessary immunisation.  
Improving maternal health is goal five of the MDGs, which has also 
received the attention of MDGs Community Development Group. This is 
because the corps members have carried out activities for the 
improvement of maternal health.  This was done through sensitisation 
campaign for the improvement of maternal health. Through this 
medium women and the entire families were advised on the 
importance of antenatal care during pregnancy. This is relevant in 
                                                           17M.A.L.T : NYSC/FCT DTA Magazine by FCT 2006 Batch 'B' Corps Members Maiden 
Edition, p.13. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Millennium Development... 
283 
 
identifying danger signs, which will give room for emergency referral 
and the choice of safe birthing options.18 
Combating H.I.V/AIDS, Malaria and other diseases is goal six of the 
MDGs. The effort in realising this goal in Nigeria has also received the 
attention of the MDGs Community Development Group. This was done 
through various outreaches to various communities whereby the 
volunteer corps members campaigned and sensitised people on the 
need to protect themselves against these deadly diseases. People were 
enlightened on how to protect themselves against HIV/AIDS by 
avoiding unnecessary sex. Similarly, people of the various communities 
were encouraged to cultivate and maintain a healthy environment as a 
way of protecting themselves against malaria and other diseases.19 
In addition, the NYSC/MDGs Community Development Service Group 
has also supported the Federal Government of Nigeria in its effort to 
realize goal seven of the MDGs. The MDG CDs group have carried out 
outreaches in various communities in Nigeria where they sensitised 
people on the need to safe guard their environment through hygienic 
practices as a way of ensuring environmental sustainability. 
Developing Global Partnership is goal eight of the Millennium 
Development Goals. The achievement of this goal has also received the 
attention of the MDGs Community Development Service in Nigeria. The 
corps members have used several mediums for the actualisation of this 
goal including through their publications in the NYSC Magazines 
whereby they reiterated that if all countries are to achieve these goals, 
international cooperation is necessary. 
 
                                                           18M.A.L.T : NYSC/FCT DTA Magazine by FCT 2006 Batch 'B' Corps Members Maiden 
Edition, p.20. 19 M.A.L.T : NYSC/FCT DTA Magazine by FCT 2006 Batch 'B' Corps Members Maiden 
Edition, p.13. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                       NuraIsah Zubairu 
284 
 
However, by 2015, when it was realised by world leaders that the 
MDGs were not comprehensively achievable by all countries of the 
globe, a new set of development goals were adopted by 193 countries 
in a special summit at the United Nations (UN). These goals are called 
the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). They are designed to 
essentially end poverty, achieve gender equality, and ensure food 
security worldwide by 2030.20In this effort, nearly all the countries in 
the world have promised to improve the planet and the lives of its 
inhabitants. They have committed themselves to 17 life-changing goals 
outlined by the United Nations. These goals include the following: 
poverty eradication, zero hunger, good health, education for all, gender 
equality,  clean water, clean energy, economic growth, industry and 
infrastructure, end to inequality, sustainability, responsible 
consumption, climate action, life under water, life on land, peace and 
justice as well as partnership. The Nigerian Government being a 
signatory to this declaration, has made appreciable efforts towards the 
realisation of these goals. Similarly, the NYSC MDGs/SDGs Community 
Development Service groups have also continued with their efforts 
towards realising the Sustainable Development Goals. 
 
Conclusion 
The National Youths Service Corps (NYSC) has contributed to the effort 
of Nigerians towards the realization of the MDGs/SDGs through the 
activities of Debate to Action (DTA) Community Development Service. 
This is because the volunteer youths have extended the campaigning 
for the awareness of the goals to local communities. They also 
encouraged both government and people at individual and collective 
levels to adopt the attitude of more action less talk in an effort to 
achieve the goals.  This to some extent enlightened the people of 
various communities in Nigeria to contribute their quota to the 
                                                           20 M.M. Bawa, Repetition of History: The Role of SDGs in Nigeria,Lapai Journal of 
Nigerian History, Vol. 12, No. 2, 2020, p.63. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and the Millennium Development... 
285 
 
actualization of the Millennium Development Goals and Sustainable 
Development Goals. 
Though the central focus of this chapter is the MDGs and their roles in 
the socio-economic and political development of the Nigerian state 
through the NYSC scheme, this chapter also made an incursion into 
some of the major areas of the NYSC community development scheme 
to which MDGs is an integral part.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

THE NYSC AND SAED                                                       NuraIsah Zubairu 
286 
 
References: 
 
Arubayi, D.O. "Youths in Development: Understanding the 
Contributions of the National Youths Service Corps (NYSC) to 
Nigeria's National Development", PhD, Development Policy 
Management, Institute of Development Policy and Management, 
2015. 
Bawa, M. M. Repetition of History: The Role of SDGs in Nigeria, Lapai 
Journal of Nigerian History, Vol. 12, No. 2, 2020. 
F.C.T KOPA: Magazine / Photo Album of the F.C.T, Abuja,  2007 Batch 'B' 
Corps Members, Publication of National Youth Service Corps, 
Vol. 15, No. 9, September, 2008. 
FGN,NEEDS: NIGERIA: The National Economic Empowerment and 
Development Strategy Document, National Planning 
Commission, Abuja, 2004. 
Handbook for Corps Members on Teaching Assignments: Orientation 
Lecture Series, Directorate Head Quarters, Abuja, 1980. 
Onwere, C. "National Youths Service Corps Programme and National 
Integration in Nigeria", PhD Thesis, Department of 
International and Comparative Education, Institute of 
Education, University of London, 1992. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Sustainable Development in Nigeria 
287 
 
 1414 1414    
    National Youth Service Corps and Sustainable 
Development in Nigeria 
 
 
Ladi Charles Chiwar 
 
 
Introduction 
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) is a program established by 
the Nigerian government which involves the engagement of the 
Nigerian graduate in nation building and development of the country. It 
was established in 1973 to foster national unity and cohesion traceable 
to the event of the Civil War of 1967-1970which had threatened the 
corporate unity of the county. The NYSC has played a significant role in 
reducing the tension of the Civil War, where young graduates have the 
opportunity to mingle with one another irrespective of region, tribe or 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC ANDSAED                                                           Ladi Charles Chiwar 
288 
 
religion. The scheme’s mandate is to raise a class of patriotic, morally 
and physically disciplined Nigerian youth. Throughout the duration of 
the programme, corps members live among and within their host 
communities facilitating unity, integration and through the scheme’s 
Community Development Service (CDS) corps members felt identify 
felt needs of communities and mobilize the people to execute projects 
for the development of such community. The National Youth Service 
Corps Scheme is also ensuring that Nigerian graduates participate 
actively in championing Sustainable Development at the grassroots. 
Sustainable Development is an initiative that will bring development to 
achieve a better and more sustainable future for all. It focuses on three 
fundamental components that is; environmental protection, economic 
growth and social equity. Also, addressing the global challenges such 
as; poverty, inequality, climatic change, environmental degradation, 
peace and justice. The goal is to meet the needs of today without 
compromising the needs of tomorrow. It is compulsory for the corps 
members to belong to a Community Development Service (CDS)group. 
Sustainable Development Goals is one of the CDS groups tasked with 
achieving and sensitizing the populace on the 17 goals of the SDGs.1 
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are; 
1. End poverty  
2. End hunger 
3. Good health and well being 
4. Quality education 
5. Achieve gender equality 
6. Clean water and sanitation 
7. Affordable and clean energy 
                                                           1United Nations (2015): Transforming Our World: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development (online) available at 
www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/.../transforming-our-world-document..-
bid(para78,pg 28) 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Sustainable Development in Nigeria 
289 
 
8. Decent work and economic growth 
9. Industry, innovation and infrastructure 
10.  Reduced inequalities 
11.  Sustainable cities and communities 
12. Responsible consumption and communities 
13. Climate action 
14. Life below water 
15.  Life on land 
16.  Peace, justice and strong institution 
17.  Partnerships for the goals. 
Nigeria was among the 189 countries worldwide that supported the 
United Nations Millennium Goals in September 2000. This led to the 
adoption of the eight Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) with 
several targets and indicators meant to be achieved in 2015. In 
September 2015, the UN member countries adopted a new 
comprehensive ambitions and United Nations (2015) Transforming 
Our World: the 2030 Agenda for sustainable development and 
transformational development agenda. 17 Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs) and 169 targets aimed at eradicating poverty and 
transforming the planet into a sustainable and resilient development 
pathway to ensure the wellbeing of everyone including the 
environment.2Since the SDGs were adopted in 2015, conspicuous 
progress has been made in tackling global social and development 
issues following the implementation of actions relating to the MDGs. 
Several challenges remained which continued to affect the achievement 
of the goals in many countries. These challenges are in the areas of 
ending poverty and hunger, ensuring good health, quality education, 
                                                           2United Nations (2015): Transforming Our World: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development (online) available at 
www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/.../transforming-our-world-document..-
bid(para78,pg 28) 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC ANDSAED                                                           Ladi Charles Chiwar 
290 
 
gender equality, clean water and sanitation, good jobs and economic 
growth, reducing inequalities and improving the climate. 
The scope of the SDGs has been expanded significantly compared to the 
MDGs from 8 to 17 goals. The goals are interconnected, and the key to 
success on one will depend, to a large extent, on issues associated with 
others are resolved. This is a global programme spread to all countries 
and people to enhance their value and quality of life in a sustainable 
way for future generations. They tackle the basic foundations of 
poverty and unite people to attain positive change. The programme 
presents a unique opportunity to put the whole world on a more 
prosperous and sustainable development path. One of the ways in 
which Nigeria implements the 17Sustainable Development Goals is by 
active engagement of the corps members serving across the country. 
The NYSC scheme train corps members to play an advocacy role for the 
SDGs at the grassroots level by dispatching them into the various host 
communities where they are deployed for their primary assignment. 
This is a way through which these communities could feel the impact 
and also reap the benefit of development programme around them. 
NYSC/SDGs came into partnership of using corps members in achieving 
the objectives of the SDGs. The purpose of using the corps members in 
these communities is to ensure the proper harnessing and execution of 
the SDG goals at the grassroots.  
 
Background to Sustainable Development 
The term Sustainability indicates programs and actions aimed at the 
preservation of a particular resource. Sustainable means to be able to 
produce or sustain resources for an indefinite period without depleting 
future generation ability to do the same by not exceeding the 
generation capacity of nature. The concept of Sustainable Development 
was defined in the World Commission on Environment and 
Development’s 1987 Brundt land report; as “development that meets 
the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Sustainable Development in Nigeria 
291 
 
generations to meet their own needs.3” It goes beyond that to 
emphasize a form of development that also supports the attainment of 
the needs of future generations. Sustainable development is the 
organizing principles for meeting human goals. It is also defined as the 
practice of maintaining world processes, productivity natural or human 
made by replacing resources used with resources of greater value 
without degrading or endangering the natural biotic system.4 It refers 
to the four (4) areas that is; human, social, economic and environment. 
Human Sustainability; this is aimed at maintaining and improving the 
human capital in the society. Investments in the health and education 
system, access to services, nutrition, knowledge and skills are all 
program under human sustainability. This encompasses the 
development of skills and human capacity to support the functions of 
sustainability and promote the wellbeing of communities. Social 
Sustainability; this concept accommodates a large view of the world 
relating to communities, culture and globalization. It aims to preserve 
social capital by investing on services that constitute the framework of 
the society.  Social sustainability focus on maintaining and improving 
social equality which addresses social and economic improvement that 
protects the environment and supports equality, therefore economic, 
society and ecological system are dependent.5 
Economic Sustainability; this intends to maintain the capital intact. If 
social sustainability focuses on improving social equality, economic 
sustainability improves the standard of living. 
 
                                                           3 Yourmatter.com, sustainable development what is 
it?https://www.iisd.org/about-iisd/sustainable-development, 19/02/2021. 4Lynnr Kahle, and Eda G. Atay, (eds.) Communicating sustainability for the Green 
Economy. (New York: M.E sharp 2014).p5 5Futurelearn.com, The four pillars of sustainability: 
sustaihttps://www.futurelearn.com/info/courses/sustainable-
business/o/steps/78337,20/02/2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC ANDSAED                                                           Ladi Charles Chiwar 
292 
 
Environmental Sustainability; aims to improve human welfare to 
ensure that the needs of the population are met without compromising 
the needs of future generations through the protection of natural 
capital. 
 
The Transformation from MDGS to SDGS. After three (3) years of 
debate, consultation, disagreements and agreements involving all 
stakeholders as to what, how and why there should be an all-
encompassing post 2015 development agenda that will build on the 
MDGs which include areas and issues that were not capture in the 
MDGs. In September 2015 at the UN General Assembly, in reaching to 
the transition from the MDGs to the SDGs, Nigerian President 
Muhammadu Buhari said the “SDGs have come to complete the 
unfinished business of the MDGs, and Nigeria is committed to 
completing this unfinished business and achieving success”.6The 17 
sustainable development goals and 169 targets as signed in September 
2015 demonstrate the scale and ambition of the new universal agenda 
with mandate to: 
• Build on the Millennium Development goals and complete what 
they did not achieve. 
• Seek to realize the human rights of all and to achieve gender 
equality and empowerment of all women and girls. 
• Place peace as central to the social, economic and 
environmental segments of sustainable development. 
• Bring clean water, sanitation, clean energy and sustainable 
cities and communities as basic for human development. 
• Integrate and balance the three dimensions of sustainable 
development; the economic, social and environmental. 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were brought forth during a 
United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development in Rio De 
                                                           6NYSCSDGs, AdvocacyProject,Temporary Trainers Manual,NYSC, 2019, p1. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Sustainable Development in Nigeria 
293 
 
Janeiro in 2012. The focus and intentions was to produce a set of 
globally acceptable goals to get acquainted with the environment, 
political and economic challenges facing the world. SDGs replace the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) which took effect in 2001 with 
a global exertion to subdue debasement of poverty. The MDGs 
established subduing unfavorable condition of people in terms of 
objectives for preventing deadly diseases and expanding primary 
education to all children. For over 15 years, MDGs led progress in these 
areas; reducing income poverty, providing access to water and 
sanitation, driving down child mortality to its barest minimum level, 
improving materials health, and free primary education. Most 
significantly the MDGs made distinctive remarkable steps in fighting 
HIV/AIDS and other diseases like malaria and tuberculosis.7 
The United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development charged a 
process to develop the goals SDGs which will carry on the 
developmental tasks generated by the MDGs and fit into a global 
development framework. The SDGs are committed to finish and gear up 
some challenges confronting the world today. All the 17 goals are 
interconnected, meaning success in one of the goals affect success in 
another.8The fundamental goals for Sustainable Development were put 
into effect by United Nations Member States in 2015 as initiative to 
terminate poverty, protect the planet and guarantee that all people 
enjoy peace and prosperity.These 17 SDGs are interrelated in that they 
support each other because action in one area will affect outcomes in 
others. Overall, the SDGs underscore that development must balance 
social, economic and environmental sustainability, which is commonly 
referred to as Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in business circles. 
                                                           7United Nation Development Programme, sustainable development goals, 
https://www.undp.org/content/undp/en/home/sustainable-development-
goals.html, 2/02/2021. 8“Agreement Reached on Weakened Outcome Text as Leaders Arrive for Rio 
Summit | International Center for Trade and Sustainable 
Development’’.Ictsd.org.Retrieved 4 August 2014. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC ANDSAED                                                           Ladi Charles Chiwar 
294 
 
SDGs are designed to stabilize and halt the decline of the environment 
in all its ramifications, including bringing about zero poverty, hunger, 
and reducing discrimination against women and girls.9 
 
Contributions of NYSC towards the Attainment of the SDGS 
The energetic engagement of young people through Nigeria National 
Youth Service Corps (NYSC) is central to achieving peaceful and 
inclusive society as envisioned by the United Nations 2030 sustainable 
development agenda. Nigeria’s one year service mandate is to raise a 
class of patriotic, morally and physically disciplined Nigerian youth. 
Corps members under the age of 30 who have graduated from 
universities and polytechnic (at home and abroad) through the scheme 
engaged in nation building and community development service.10 
During the compulsory one year service, corps members live among 
and work within the host communities facilitating unity and 
integration. They also help in executing relevant community projects 
with the local people. 
The Community Development Service (CDS) is one of the four (4) 
cardinal programmes of NYSC, geared towards the development of 
their host communities throughout the period of national service. 
UNESCO cited Onyeozu who defines community development as “an 
educational method by which the efforts of the people themselves are 
united with those of governmental authorities to improve the 
economic, social and cultural conditions of communities to integrate 
these communities into the life of the nation to enable them contribute 
fully to national progress.”11 Community development seeks to 
                                                           9Wikipedia, https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sustainable-Development-Goals 
,2/02/2021 10National Youth Service Corps, Historical Background, (NYSC, 2012), accessed 14th 
February, 2021, http/www.nysc.gov.ng/history2.php 11M.A. Oyebamji and InermesitEssiestUmofia, Influence of The Activities of the 
National Youth Service Corps Scheme on the Knowledge of Social Issues in Host 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Sustainable Development in Nigeria 
295 
 
empower individuals and groups of people with the skills they need to 
effect change within their communities. These skills are usually created 
through the formation of social groups working for a common agenda. 
The Cambridge summer conference define community development as 
a movement designed to promote better living for the whole 
community with active participation and on the initiative of the 
community.12This community-building aspect of the NYSC scheme 
ensures corps members engage in activities to do with the 
improvement and development of community life.13These programme 
have transformed our communities in the area of education, health care 
delivery, agriculture, technology, economic empowerment, poverty 
eradication and social service.14 
The NYSC activities and its development exercises have largely been 
impacted by SDGs conceptual structure. Initiatives that have emerged 
from the SDGs conceptual structure are embedded as part of the NYSC 
community development program such as the war against poverty 
(WAP), Family and Community Life Re-orientation Programme 
(FACOR), and the SDGs Advocacy Creation Programme (SACP). In this 
regard, the collaboration has gone in contributing immensely to 
national growth a considerable distance. The corps members have 
consistently served as election agents providing quality service and 
effective support as staff to the Independent National Electoral 
Commission (INEC)that attract commendation by the international 
organizations such as the UNDP, Economic Community of West African 
States (ECOWAS) and the African Union (AU) etc. 
                                                                                                                                       
Communities in River and AkwaIbom States, International Journal of Education 
and Evaluation Vol.2 2016,p30. 12https://infed.or/mobi/community-participation -community-development-and-
non-formal,3/02/2021 13NYSC, ABC of Community Development Service,( National Youth Service Corps 
Revised Edition October 2014),p1. 14Alison Gillchrist; Marilyn Taylor, The Short Guide to Community Development, 
Vol.3, Policy Press 2011, p2-3. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC ANDSAED                                                           Ladi Charles Chiwar 
296 
 
Another credible strategy by the NYSC has been the establishment of 
the Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) 
Department which has motivated partnership for ensuring a youth-
impulsive approach to addressing the challenges of graduate 
unemployment. In 2012, NYSC was directed by the Federal Government 
to establish SAED department. The SAED was tasked with sensitizing 
corps members to realities of Nigeria job market as successful business 
requires awareness of one’s knowledge, skills, ability, attitudes, vales 
and preferences. This exposes them to the option of self-employment 
or start up their own business. The training package is an introduction 
to ethical entrepreneurship, which is aimed at installing a sense of self 
confidence and awakening corps members to the responsibility that 
self-employment, could be a viable career option. A key element of 
productive livelihoods in consistent with Nigeria vision 2020 and the 
first of Millennium Development goals, which is concerned with 
poverty eradication.15 These are some of the accent of the vehement 
response of the NYSC to absorb the corps members responsibly.16 
Regardless of the challenges of unemployment, poverty, militancy, 
armed robbery, kidnappings, and other security related challenges, the 
mobilization and deployment of corps members have had profitable 
and inevitable flow of unity, peace, and stability of the country as 
initially provided in the NYSC enabling Act, which has shown vigor 
strength and firmness. The Sustainable Development Goals programme 
and its prosecution, the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) 
programme is a universal call to action to end poverty, hunger, gender 
inequality, promotion of healthy living and economic growth. The 
NYSC/SDGs project is aimed at creating public awareness on policies 
and programmes of government concerning the SDGs using trained 
                                                           15National Youth Service Corps, Starting My Own Business Small Business, A 
Training Module On Entrepreneurship for NYSC Corps Members(2016). 16Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim, NYSC and Nation Development, National 
Youth Service Corps 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Sustainable Development in Nigeria 
297 
 
corps, volunteers as development knowledge facilitators. The main 
objective here is to make Nigeria become informed participant in the 
process of attaining sustainable national development. The NYSC 
participated actively in the awareness creation program for the SDGs. 
NYSC/SDGs advocacy project started in 2006 resulting in an outreach 
to over one million Nigerians on policies and program of government.17 
The key aspect of the SDGs is War against Poverty (WAP) introduced by 
NYSC in 2009 with its components aimed at empowering corps 
members with skills and start-up capital for agro-allied business.  
 
The Significance of NYSC/SDGS Advocacy Project (Sap) 
The NYSC/SDGs advocacy project (SAP) provide a means to guarantee 
that all citizens become informed and can participate in the 
implementation and realization of the SDGs at community, local, 
national, regional and global level. The project started as NYSC/SDGs in 
September 2006 with the focus to galvanize and make all Nigerians 
active participants.18 Corps volunteers were trained as development 
knowledge facilitators to mentor youths on care for orphans, charity 
works and basic skills for sustainable livelihood. When the SDGs 
started in 2017, the office of the Senior Special Assistant to the 
President on SDGs (OSSAP-SDGs) entered into partnership with the 
NYSC to train graduate youths to become SDGs champions in their host 
communities and areas of national service to create public awareness 
on policies and program of government concerning the SDGs. 
The NYSC SDGs group through the Community Development Service 
offered free skills acquisition training program for students in Bayelsa 
State. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) CDS group in Bayelsa 
State organized a one week free skill acquisition program for Onopa 
community secondary school and the people. The free skill acquisition 
programme was carried out by Batch A 2019 corps members to impact 
                                                           17 National Youth Service Year Book, 2018 edition, p13. 18NYSC SDGs, Advocacy Project,Temporary Trainers Manual, (2019),p5. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC ANDSAED                                                           Ladi Charles Chiwar 
298 
 
on the lives of the young secondary school students of Bayelsa State. 
Participants received training in different areas such as production of 
liquid soap, Izal, Shampoo, Dettol, Air-freshener, Bleach, Tie and Dye, 
Shoes and Interlocking Stones.19 The purpose of skill acquisition 
programme is to prepare and equip the students and the Natives of the 
community with appropriate skills that would be beneficial to them in 
future. The skills acquisition is capable of ensuring value re-orientation 
among the students and transforms them into creators of wealth and 
employment rather than expecting to be white collar job seekers in the 
future.20The creation of wealth and employment will lead to poverty 
reduction and increase welfare status in the lives of the people. 
The corps members also sensitize the students and people on the 
following; 
• Teenage pregnancy 
• Cultism 
• Examination malpractice 
• Menstruation 
• Dirty environment 
• Election violence. 
 
Teenage pregnancy; this is the case of under aged pregnancy. The 
corps members educate the participants on sexual education. This is 
going to affect their lives negatively by limiting their education; 
stigmatization within peer groups and relationship with the immediate 
community education, so early awareness of its danger is better carried 
out to avert such. 
                                                           19Abubakar Yau,25years, corps Member, Kaduna, 15,Febuary 2021. 20IdokoCletusUsman,Skill Acquisition and Youth Empowerment in Nigeria, Global 
journal of commerce & management perspectives (published by:Global institute 
for research & education) p.51 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Sustainable Development in Nigeria 
299 
 
Cultism; participants were identified and given orientation on cultism 
and its effect in terms of how it can morally degrade their lives, 
affecting their education, hopes and aspirations for the future. 
Exam malpractice; this is a deliberate act of wrong doing contrary to 
the rules of examination. Examination malpractice also known as 
cheating is the morally illegal action that students take during their 
examinations to make good grades. Participants were given an 
intensive teaching on the effect of malpractice which includes; 
discouragement of students from hard work, low productivity, 
corruption and falsified certificates.21 
Menstruation; participants were asked to identify changes. Responses 
from participants were used to inform them that when a girl is 
approaching adulthood, one of the changes is that she starts to 
menstruate (the flow of blood). This is natural and preparing her for 
womanhood. Menstruation is the flow of blood from the vagina of an 
adolescent girl which occurs once in a month and can last for 2-7 days. 
The Corps members render their services in the aspect of Health as one 
of the SDGs. They visit schools, hospitals and places of gathering in 
their host communities to sensitize on health, inform and educate the 
people on how to take care of their health and preventing the root 
causes of ill health for health promotion and disease prevention. Free 
medical services were also given as achieving sustainability is 
impossible without addressing health issues. Batch A 2019 corps 
members in Bayelsa State also, visited Science Technical College Okaka 
for sensitization on sex education, and Lasa fever during the 
outbreak.22In the aspect of education, Corps members played a vital 
                                                           21Oko,SylvanusUshie, Examination Malpractice: Causes, Effects And Possible Ways 
Curbing The Menace . A Study of Cross River University of 
Technology,international journal of Managerial Studies and Research, vol.4 (print) 
& ISSN 2349-0349. P.59 22Suleiman K. Gambo, 28 years , Medical Doctor, Kaduna, 18,Feburary ,2021. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC ANDSAED                                                           Ladi Charles Chiwar 
300 
 
role in the education of the community members. They were posted to 
schools to teach, to help build students reading skills, and organize 
seminars on Education, Health and Sex education. Education for 
sustainable development is mentioned in goal 4 of SDGs, which aim to 
ensure that all learners acquire the knowledge and skill needed to 
promote sustainable development, and the youths are a credit to the 
actualization of these goals. 
In a virtual seminar with the theme, “Alleviating Hunger and Poverty 
through Agriculture: Today Youth- Tomorrow’s Leaders”, which was 
organized by corps members serving at the International Institute for 
Tropical Agriculture, Ibadan. The NYSC Director-General, Brigadier 
General Shuaibu Ibrahim, advised corps members to equip themselves 
with modern trends in agriculture practices.23He noted that the NYSC 
Management would seek the active participation of corps members in 
agriculture which is in line with the Federal Government’s drive to 
boost agricultural to diversify national economy. He urged the corps 
members to key in to other youth empowerment programmes such as; 
Youth Initiative for Sustainable Agriculture in Nigeria and other 
programmes that will make youth to be self-reliant. 
Conclusion 
Sustainable Development Goals is aimed at empowering and equipping 
current and future generations to meet their basic human needs using a 
balanced and integrated approach to the economic, social and 
environmental dimensions of sustainable development. It provides the 
knowledge, skills, values and attitudes that empower learners to 
contribute to the attainment of sustainable development and to 
improve wellbeing and human security. The SDGs are all integrated and 
achieving particular goals of the SDGs helps in achieving the other goals 
as well. Nigeria has engaged the services of corps members across the 
country to champion the implementation of SDGs 2030 because the 
                                                           23Media Assessment, Shuaibu Ibrahim’s Silent Revolution in NYSC, Vol. 2020. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Sustainable Development in Nigeria 
301 
 
young people are the largest population who are also adversely 
affected by the issues of bad governance, climate change, and 
environmental degradation leading to unemployment, displacement 
and poverty. It is no wonder that the key areas of the SDGs are on 
critical issues of poverty and inclusive economy, health and well-being, 
education and gender equality, enabling environment of peace and 
security. All nations must be determined to implement the SDGs as a 
development agenda. Focus on the needs of the poor and most 
vulnerable in the society regardless of differences in race, colour, 
language, religion, technological advancement or geographical 
boundaries must determine to foster peace and eliminate fear and 
violence. In the final analysis, it suffices to conclude that there is no 
sustainable development without peace and no peace without 
sustainable development; the two are mutually inclusive. The NYSC 
scheme has contributed so well providing the foot soldiers in carrying 
information of the SDGs to the nooks and crannies of Nigeria, 
particularly the rural communities where the serve.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC ANDSAED                                                           Ladi Charles Chiwar 
302 
 
Bibliography 
 
Agreement Reached on Weekend Outcome Text as Leaders Arrive for 
Rio Summit | International Center for Trade and Sustainable 
Development’’. Ictsd. org .Retrieved 4 August 2014. 
Futurelearn.com, The four pillars of sustainability: 
sustaihttps://www.futurelearn.com/info/courses/sustainable-
business/o/steps/78337,20/02/2021. 
Gambo Suleiman K., 28 years , Medical Doctor, Kaduna, 18thFeburary 
,2021 
Gillchrist Alison; Marilyn Taylor, The Short Guide to Community 
Development, Vol.3, Policy Press 2011. 
https://infed.or/mobi/community-participation-community-
development-and-non-formal, 3rd February, 2021. 
Ibrahim Shuaibu, NYSC and Nation Development, National Youth 
Service Corps 
Kahle Lynnr, and Eda G. Atay, (eds.) Communicating sustainability for 
the Green Economy. (New York: M.E sharp 2014) 
M.A. Oyebamji and InermesitEssiestUmofia, Influence of The Activities 
of the National Youth Service Corps Scheme on the Knowledge 
of Social Issues in Host Communities in River and AkwaIbom 
States, International Journal of Education and Evaluation Vol.2 
2016. 
National Youth Service Corps, Historical Background, (NYSC, 2012), 
accessed14thFebruary,2021,http/www.nysc.gov.ng/history2.ph
p 
National Youth Service Corps, Starting My Own Business Small 
Business, A Training Module On Entrepreneurship for NYSC 
Corps Members(2016). 
NYSC SDGs, Advocacy Project, Temporary Trainers Manual, NYSC, 
2019. 
NYSC, ABC of Community Development Service, (National Youth 
Service Corps Revised Edition October 2014) 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

National Youth Service Corps and Sustainable Development in Nigeria 
303 
 
United Nation Development Programme, sustainable development 
goals, https://www.undp.org/content/undp/en/home/ 
sustainable-development-goals.html, 2nd February, 2021. 
United Nations (2015): Transforming Our World: the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development (online) available at 
www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/.../transforming-our-
world-document. 
UshieOko,Sylvanus, Examination Malpractice: Causes, Effects And 
Possible Ways Curbing The Menace . A Study of Cross River 
University of Technology,international journal of Managerial 
Studies and Research, vol.4 (print) & ISSN 2349-0349. 
UsmanIdoko Cletus, Skill Acquisition and Youth Empowerment in 
Nigeria, Global journal of commerce & management 
perspectives (published by: Global institute for research & 
education). 
Wikipedia, https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sustainable-Development 
-Goals, 2nd February, 2021. 
Yau Abubakar, 25years, corps Member, Kaduna, 15th February,2021. 
Yourmatter.com, sustainable development what is it? 
https://www.iisd.org/about-iisd/sustainable-development, 
19th February, 2021. 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND SAED                                                        Mercy Chat Adms  
304 
 
 11 1155 55    
    The Prospect of Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship 
Development (SAED) on Youth Empowerment in 
Nigeria 
 
 
Mercy Chat Adms  
 
 
Introduction 
In Nigeria today, there is an increasing rate of poverty, unemployment, 
and other social problems that have bedevilled the youth in particular 
which Deebom and Okwelle1 affirmed that these may have resulted 
from the lack of appropriate skill acquisition by graduates and the 
                                                           1M. T Deebom, andOkwelle, P. C. “Empowering Rural Youths for Maximum 
Societal Impact through Skills Acquisition Programme in Ogoni Area of Rivers 
State”,African Journal of Historical Sciences in Education, 12.1,(2016): 222 – 250. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Prospect of Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED)  
305 
 
youths in general. Also, the unemployment level in Nigeria has 
persistently been on the increase. As at April 2018, the unemployment 
rate in Nigeria is 18.80%. This figure is relatively high if compared with 
countries like India (3.4%), Mexico (3.20%), Indonesia (5.50%), Turkey 
(10.40%), and Brazil (12.60%).2 
The issue of unemployment has been a major concern of the Federal 
Government leading to the introduction of different programmes such 
as the National Poverty Eradication Programme (NAPEP), Subsidy 
Reinvestment Programme (SURE P) among others. In 2012, the 
introduction of the Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship 
Development (SAED) programme by the National Youth Service Corps 
(NYSC) helped to engage graduates with skills that will enable them to 
become entrepreneurs after service, thereby making them self-
sufficient and skillful, leading to a reduction in the rate of 
unemployment. It is against this background that this study seeks to 
examine the place of the SAED programme on youth empowerment in 
Nigeria.  
 
Definition of Terms 
Empowerment as defined by the World Bank is the process of 
developing the individual's (youths) capacity and capability to be able 
to make choices and to convert their decisions and thoughts into 
desired actions and outcomes.3 This definition views youths’ 
empowerment from the perspective of human capacity building which 
targets how to make an individual or youths to be self-employed, 
independent, or self-reliant.  
Also, Okwelle and Deebom stressed that empowerment could be seen 
as the process of molding an individual (youths) with the required skill 
                                                           2Nigeria’s National Bureau of Statistics, 2017 3 World Bank Group. Poverty reduction and equity.Accessed12th March, 2020 
http://web.worldbank.org: http://go.worldbank.org/V45HD4P100 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND SAED                                                        Mercy Chat Adms  
306 
 
necessary for its economic, financial, social, moral, and psychological 
existence and development to enhance self-reliance individually and 
the society at large.4 In this study, empowerment is defined as the 
process of training the youths (Corp Members) for them to acquire 
different skills that can make them to be self-employed and to employ 
others. Based on this definition, it implies that meaningful skill 
acquisition programme like that of NYSC SAED should incorporate the 
youth for their empowerment. From the foregoing, the National Youth 
Service Corps Service Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship 
Development programme will only be meaningful if it influences the 
youth in a way of empowerment. 
Over the years in Nigeria and other parts of the world, different 
programmes have been introduced to serve and tackle a particular 
situation. The programme could be to curb insecurity, enhance food 
production, reducing unemployment among others, Also, these 
programmes were targeted towards a particular set of people such as 
the adolescent, youths, adults, the elderly, educated, the non-educated, 
and even the physically challenged people. One of such programmes 
that were introduced targeting the youths is the National Youth Service 
Corps.  
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) was established by the 
Nigerian Government to engage fresh Nigerian graduates of tertiary 
institutions in national development. The National Youth Service Corps 
is a programme meant for graduates of tertiary institutions to serve the 
nation for one year as a way of integrating them into another 
geographical region in the country. This was done as a way of 
                                                           4P. C. Okwelle, &M. T. Deebom, ‘Technical Vocational Education and Training as a 
Tool for Sustainable Empowerment of Youths in Niger Delta, Nigeria.’ 
International Journal of Innovative Social & Science Education Research 5.1, 
(2017): 29-38. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Prospect of Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED)  
307 
 
promoting national unity, Maduawuchi5 opined that during the early 
years after Nigeria gained independence from Great Britain, the 
country was filled with so much strife and tribal segregation that the 
Nigerian government of that time sought to foster peace and unity 
among Nigerian, starting with the youths through a programme that 
removed cultural and geographical bias.  
After the Nigerian-Biafran War that took place between 1963-1970, the 
Federal Military Government under the military leadership of General 
Yakubu Gowon set out to rebuild Nigeria through a programme which 
was known as the 3R’s – Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and 
Reconciliation. This programme of 3R’s helped to set up the National 
Youth Service Corps (NYSC) on May 22, 1973, through Decree No. 24. 
The aim of introducing NYSC according to Decree No. 24 was to develop 
common ties and promote national peace for coexistence through the 
youths.6With these aims and objectives, it was categorically stated in 
the decree that all graduates from tertiary institutions such as 
Universities, Polytechnics, Colleges of Education should be posted to 
other states within the country (Nigeria) to serve their fatherland in 
form of a national assignment. The posting was such that graduates 
must not be allowed to serve in their states of origin.7 
Based on this purpose, each state of the federation has its place to 
accommodate these graduates for this exercise which is regarded as 
“Orientation Camp”. They spent three weeks in this camp where they 
                                                           5Maduawuchi, OHistory of NYSC in Nigeria: When NYSC Started and Purpose. 
2019. Accessed10th March 2020 https//nigeriainfopedia.com.ng//history-of-nysc-
in-nigeria/  6 National Youth Service Corps. Hand Book History and Objectives of the National 
Youth Service 
Corps, 1996. 7M.O., Ogundele, M.O., Sofoluwe, x &D.J. Kayode, ‘Integrating Entrepreneurship 
Skills Acquisition in to National 
YouthsServiceCorpsProgrammeinNigeria’JournalofEntrepreneurshipand 
Management , 2.3 (2012): 24-28. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND SAED                                                        Mercy Chat Adms  
308 
 
are exposed to paramilitary exercises or trainings to keep them 
physically fit and viable for the national service year. These training are 
handled by soldiers (Army). One of the major exercises participated by 
corps members is the “Endurance Trek” where you are allowed to trek 
over a long distance. The aim of this is to make the individual fit and 
develop the spirit of perseverance. 
At the end of the orientation course, they are posted to different places 
or sectors within the states to carry out their Primary Assignment 
where they stay and work for the remaining part of the service year. 
Some of the sectors or places they are posted to include educational 
institutions (Universities, Polytechnics, Colleges of Education, 
Secondary Schools among others), judiciary, industries, hospitals, state 
and federal secretariat, Local Government Councils, and so on. The 
service year ends up with a Passing Out Parade (POP) where and when 
each corps member is duly qualified and certified to be issued a 
Certificate of National service. The rationale of the Federal Government 
then was to post the fresh graduates as corps members to serve in a 
new state or community, so that they would be able to interact with the 
members of the new community, acculturate their ways of life, make 
friends and even marry. As such, there will be cultural integration; 
thereby fostering unity. 
However, due to the enormous challenges such as underemployment 
and unemployment confronting Nigeria, other responsibilities have 
been put on the scheme. Due to the problem of unemployment of 
graduates bedevilling the country, in 2012, the Federal Government of 
Nigeria introduced a training programme into the NYSC known as the 
Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) project. 
The aim of the programme was for the acquisition of skills for graduate 
self-reliance. This was used to tackle the issue of unemployment and 
underemployment of graduates. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Prospect of Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED)  
309 
 
The Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) 
project has its mandate of providing youth corps members open access 
to the acquisition of vita land essential skills and resources necessary 
to be successful in entrepreneurship. The goals of the scheme include 
creating awareness of young graduates who are corps members for the 
acquisition of basic skills training for entrepreneurship development 
and self-reliance. The Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship 
Development (SAED) as a Department in NYSC is headed by a Director 
and is made up of Three divisions namely: Partnership, Programmes 
and Empowerment Division. These three departments are saddled with 
the responsibilities of: 
1. Given orientation and trainedover 200, 000 corps members for 
skill acquisition yearly. 
2. Assist the training and tutoring of 100,000 young graduates in 
skill acquisitionand entrepreneurship development for self-
reliance annually. 
3. Develop an entrepreneurship partnership aiming towards self-
reliance of the youths between the private sector and the public 
sector as well. 
4. Provide new ways and methods on how best Nigerian youths’ 
employment and empowerment aredone. 
5. Support evidence-driven funding programmes to formulate 
policies that enhances youth Nigerian youths’ employment and 
empowerment. 
6. Organising orientation training programmes on the importance 
of corps members to enrol into the skill acquisition and 
entrepreneurship development program. 
7. Development of a standard curriculum for the in-camp skill 
acquisition exercise. 
8. Identification of organizations at state level to provide training 
and mentoring in specific skills sets. 
9. Attachment of the corps members to the various organizations 
for skill acquisition and entrepreneurship development. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND SAED                                                        Mercy Chat Adms  
310 
 
10. On-going monitoring and supervision of trainee corps members 
and 
11. Facilitate access to available funding opportunities 
According to Faloye and Olatunji,8 the sole objective of SAED 
programmes is to encourage the Nigerians generally, and Nigerian 
youths particularly, to be highly involved in entrepreneurial activities 
thereby creating jobs. Others include enhancement of the partnership 
between the public and the private sector to develop skill-based 
development for self-reliance among Nigerian youths and graduates. To 
reduce the rate of unemployment among Nigerian graduates roaming 
about on the street with certificate qualifications without having a 
meaningful source of livelihood, the concept of entrepreneurial 
education (training) was introduced into tertiary education in Nigeria.9 
The SAED program is aimed at young people who are corps members 
undergoing the compulsory one-year of national service to the 
fatherland. The programme was structured mainly for corps members 
to participate only during their camping period and throughout their 
one-year service (post-camp). It is expected every corps member learn 
a skill that is industrially based which can position them to become job 
creators rather than job hunters and hence reduce the number of 
unemployed graduates in the country. The SAED programme that was 
introduced in 2012 started with12 different categories of skills offered 
in the program. These skills areas include Agro-allied, Automobile, 
Beautification, Construction, Cosmetology, Culture and Tourism, 
Education, Environment, Film and Photography, Food 
                                                           8D.O. Faloye, & D.O. Olabode, ‘Entrepreneurship Education and Self-employment 
Intentions among 
Fresh Graduates in Nigeria’ Journal of Economics and Sustainable 
Development,9.12, (2018): 146-158. 9P. C. Okwelle&M. T. Deebom, ‘Technical Vocational Education and Training as a 
Tool for Sustainable Empowerment of Youths in Niger Delta, Nigeria. International 
Journal of Innovative Social & Science Education Research 5.1, (2017): 29-38. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Prospect of Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED)  
311 
 
Processing/Preservation, Information Communication Technology and 
Power and Energy. 
The SAED policy is one of the few in the country that is helping in 
empowering and preparing the youths for productive engagements. 
According to Utomwen,10 it was noted that at the end of the 2012 Batch 
“B” orientation course, 45,000 corps members had been trained in 
various skill areas. Out of this SAED trainee, the result revealed that 
5,404 corps members had been trained in agro-allied skills while 5,509 
corps members that enrol in food processing and preservation had also 
been successfully trained. However, 8,035 were trained in culture and 
tourism-related skills while just 5,062 who participated in cosmetology 
have completed the training. Furthermore, Information and 
Communication Technology (ICT), power and energy as well as 
environment had a total of 8,119,2,885 and 2,672trainees respectively.  
Also, in beautification, construction, and education, a total number of 
2,837, 2,057 and 2,425 has been trained successfully. This implies that 
from the inception of NYSC-SAED programme to date, not less than 
971,272 corps members have benefitted from the skill acquisition 
programme while over 7000 have established their preferred business. 
In 2014, about 159,732 corps members had completed the NYSC- SAED 
programme which comprises 69,904 females and 89,828 males. Over 
500,000 corps members have been trained under the NYSC-SAED 
program since its inception. Surprisingly, out of the total number of 
trained entrepreneurs, 1,600 had become full-time entrepreneurs.11 
These are some of the benefits of NYSC-SAED programme in promoting 
employment among Nigerian graduates which also usher in socio-
economic development and national integration. 
                                                           10Utomwen,‘TacklingNYSC’sSecurityChallenge,’ . 2012. Accessed Retrieved 10th 
March, 2020 fromhttp://www.pmnewsnigeria.com/2012/12/10/tackling-nyscs-
security-challenge/. 11 National Youth Service Corps. Hand Book History and Objectives of the National 
Youth Service Corps, 1996. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND SAED                                                        Mercy Chat Adms  
312 
 
Annually, the programme mobilizes and prepares over two hundred 
and fifty thousand (250,000) youths to become employable or start-up 
their businesses after completing the mandatory one-year service. The 
sole objective of these programmes is to encourage the Nigerian youths 
particularly, to be highly involved in skill acquisition for creating jobs. 
Skills are the proficiency, expertise, and ability to acquire a type of craft 
requiring specialist training. Osinem described skill as a well-
established habit of doing something expertly. 12 However, in this 
context, the skill could be described as the ability of Corps Members to 
be able to carry out a specialized area in entrepreneurial trade expertly 
for self-reliance. To this end, it will not be an over statement to say 
skills acquisition programme is made up of various kinds of skills to 
provide basic and special training/skills and capacity 
building/empowerment for the upliftment and well-being of an 
individual or a people.13 When the youths acquire skills, it will lead to 
self-reliance and reduce the level of unemployment. For skill 
acquisition training programme to have an impact on society, Deebom 
and Okwelle14 avers that skill acquisition should be tailored and 
directed towards the youths as they are seen as the frontline for 
development, both rural and urban communities. 
  
Conclusion  
The study concluded that the National Youth Service Corps Skill 
Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (NYSC-SAED) 
programme can enhance youth empowerment if they are acquired.  
More skills should be added by relevant authorities such as 
                                                           12E. C Osinem,.Managing Agricultural Education and Training Resources, Principles 
and Principles.(Enugu: Belong International Publishers Limited, 2008) 13 IAdofu,‘Alleviating Poverty through the Use of Entrepreneurship Skill 
Acquisitioninkogi State, Nigeria.’ International Journal of Independent 
ResearchandStudies,1.1 (2013): 97-105. 14M. T. Deebom, &P. C. Okwelle, ‘Empowering Rural Youths forMaximum 
SocietalImpact throughSkills AcquisitionProgramme inOgoni Area of Rivers 
State.’African Journal of Historical Sciences in Education, 12.1(2016): 222 – 250. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Prospect of Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED)  
313 
 
government agencies so that beneficiaries will have a wider choice of 
skills; Corps Members should be given more sensitisation on the 
relevance of participating in NYSC-SAED programme as this will expose 
them to opportunities that will help in making them self-employed 
thereby reducing unemployment level in Nigeria. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND SAED                                                        Mercy Chat Adms  
314 
 
Reference 
  
Adofu, I. ‘Alleviating Poverty through the Use of Entrepreneurship Skill 
AcquisitioninKogi State, Nigeria.’ International Journal of 
Independent Research and Studies, 1.1 (2013): 97-105. 
Deebom, M. T and Okwelle, P. C. “Empowering Rural Youths for 
Maximum Societal Impact through Skills Acquisition 
Programme in Ogoni Area of Rivers State”, African Journal of 
Historical Sciences in Education, 12.1, (2016): 222 – 250. 
Deebom, M. T. &Okwelle, P. C. ‘Empowering Rural Youths for Maximum 
Societal Impact through Skills Acquisition Programme in Ogoni 
Area of Rivers State.’ African Journal of Historical Sciences in 
Education, 12.1 (2016): 222 – 250. 
Faloye, D.O. &Olabode, D.O.  ‘Entrepreneurship Education and Self-
employment Intentions among 
Fresh Graduates in Nigeria’ Journal of Economics and Sustainable 
Development,9.12, (2018): 146-158. 
Maduawuchi, O ‘History of NYSC in Nigeria: When NYSC Started and 
Purpose.’ 2019. Accessed 10 th March 2020 
https//nigeriainfopedia.com.ng//history-of-nysc-in-nigeria/  
National Youth Service Corps. Hand Book History and Objectives of the 
National Youth Service 
National Youth Service Corps. Hand Book History and Objectives of the 
National Youth Service 
Ogundele, M.O., Sofoluwe, M.O., &Kayode, D.J. ‘Integrating 
Entrepreneurship Skills Acquisition in to National Youths 
Service Corps Programme in Nigeria’ Journal of 
Entrepreneurship and Management, 2.3 (2012): 24-28. 
Okwelle P. C. &Deebom, M. T. ‘Technical Vocational Education and 
Training as a Tool for Sustainable Empowerment of Youths in 
Niger Delta, Nigeria.International Journal of Innovative Social & 
Science Education Research 5.1, (2017): 29-38. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

The Prospect of Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED)  
315 
 
Okwelle, P. C. &Deebom, M. T. ‘Technical Vocational Education and 
Training as a Tool for Sustainable Empowerment of Youths in 
Niger Delta, Nigeria.’ International Journal of Innovative Social & 
Science Education Research 5.1, (2017): 29-38. 
Onyishi, A. O. ‘Youth and National Development in Nigeria: An Analysis 
of National Youth 
Osinem,. E. C. Managing Agricultural Education and Training. Resources, 
Principles and Principles. (Enugu: Belong International 
Publishers Limited, 2008) 
Service Scheme: 1999 – 2000.’  International Journal of Modern Political 
Economy, 2.1 (2011): 87 – 102. 
Utomwen, ‘Tackling NYSC’s Security Challenge,’ . 2012. Accessed 
Retrieved 10 th March, 2020 from 
http://www.pmnewsnigeria.com/2012/12/10/tackling-nyscs-
security-challenge/. 
World Bank Group. Poverty reduction and equity. Accessed 12th March, 
2020 http://web.worldbank.org:http://go.worldbank.org/ 
V45HD4P100 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND SAED                                                        BJ Audu and M. Hamza  
316 
 
 11 1166 66    
    Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim:  
An Overview of His Achievements as 18th NYSC 
Director-General 
 
 
Bem Japhet Audu 
and 
Maryam Hamza 
 
 
Introduction 
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) has attained tremendous 
height since the assumption of office by Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim as 
the Director General (DG) of the Scheme. This is not surprising, given 
the fact that Gen Ibrahim is a thoroughbred military administrator, who 
combines scholarship, emotional intelligence and finesse in his 
administrative duties. His experiences cut across administration in the 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
317 
 
military and civil establishments, which combination have accelerated 
the pace of the modest service rendered to the NYSC.  
Key issues that confronted the Scheme upon his assumption of office 
include the need to sustain the relevance of the NYSC in a fast-changing 
world; second, inadequate motivation and welfare for Corps Members 
and staff of the Scheme. The third was the challenge of unemployment 
among the youths after the mandatory one year national service. 
Gen Ibrahim’s track record as a visionary leader readily came to play in 
tackling these challenges. He initiated a five-point policy thrust to 
address them. These five-point policy thrust include the following:  
 
/xrhombus Sustain effective utilisation of the potentials of Corps Members 
for optimal benefit;  
/xrhombus Strengthen existing collaborations with critical stakeholders; 
/xrhombus Improve on the welfare and security of Corps Members and 
staff; 
/xrhombus Pursue a technologically driven organisation to deepen 
effective service delivery;  
/xrhombus Reinvigorate the NYSC Ventures and SAED in line with the NYSC 
Act for greater impact. 
 
It is against this backdrop that this essay examines the achievements of 
Gen Ibrahim as Director General of the NYSC, using a descriptive 
approach and evidence -- based study. The paper argues that Gen 
Ibrahim has not only transformed the NYSC, but has also repositioned it 
to benefit the Corps Members, members of staff and indeed, the nation 
at large.  
The assumption here is that leadership is a process of galvanising 
resources to attain group goals. Gen Ibrahim’s leadership style has led 
to the transformation of the NYSC by strengthening the institution, in 
terms of welfare, security, innovations and technological advancement. 
Despite these laudable achievements, there have equally been 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND SAED                                                        BJ Audu and M. Hamza  
318 
 
challenges. The Corona Virus (COVID-19) pandemic threatened to 
derail the activities of the Scheme. As an astute administrator, he rose 
to the occasion through a robust coordinated response to manage the 
pandemic that has become a reference point and template for other 
establishments in the country. 
 
Towards a Biography of General Ibrahim: Trends in his Academic, 
Military and Administrative Career 
Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim (Associate Professor), was born on the 13th 
July, 1967 and hails from Nasarawa Local Government Area of 
Nasarawa State. He attended the famous University of Jos where he 
obtained Bachelor's and Master's Degrees in History (1989 and 1992 
respectively), before proceeding to bag a Post-Graduate Diploma in 
Education from Tai Solarin University of Education, Ijebu Ode, Ogun 
State. Driven by his tenacity to acquire knowledge, he went on to obtain 
a Ph.D in History from the University of Abuja in 2007. 
Since his commissioning into the Nigerian Army, he has served in 
various capacities in military formations across the country. His 
appointments and postings include: The Institute of Army Education 
(Research Officer). Researched and produced Nigerian Army Journals 
and Briefs for the Nigerian Army in particular, and the Military in 
general; NYSC (Military Assistant to the Director General) 1997-1999; 
Nigerian Defence Academy (Taught 100 and 200 Levels 2000-2004; 
National Defence College (Staff Officer I Military History 2004-2009; 
Headquarters Nigerian Army School of Education (Senior Instructor) 
2009-2011; Commandant Command Secondary School, Suleja 2012-
2014; Nigerian Defence Academy (Head of Department, History and 
War Studies), 2015-2018; and Registrar, Nigerian Army University, Biu, 
Borno State(2018-2019). 
Brigadier General S Ibrahim is a scholar of high repute, who authored, 
co-authored, edited, co-edited and contributed articles/chapters to 
numerous books and academic Journals.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
319 
 
Despite his tight schedule, Brig Gen S Ibrahim still devotes time to 
academic work, including the supervision of students' thesis and 
dissertations, serving as Internal and External Examiner of Master’s 
Students at the Ahmadu Bello University Zaria and the Nigerian 
Defence Academy, Kaduna.  
Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim was appointed 18th Director General of the 
National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), and assumed the leadership of 
the Corps on 10th May, 2019.This ushered in a transformation era for 
the Scheme which has not only been a source of immense benefit to the 
Service Corps, but the entire country in general.  
The General also had a cluster of completed courses in the military, and 
excelled in these courses.  Brig Gen Ibrahim is an Associate Professor in 
the Department of History and War Studies, Nigeria Defence Academy, 
Kaduna. These feats in both military and academic trainings, as well as 
experience in service are what marked him out as a visionary, seasoned 
and ingenious administrator.  
Since assumption of duty as the Director General of the NYSC, the 
media has been awash with bourgeoning records of his strides. His 
vision for the Scheme informed his decision to roll out a five-point 
policy thrust, geared towards utilising the potentials of the Corps 
Members maximally.  Since assumption of duty at the NYSC, his 
pragmatic leadership skill has set the Scheme on the path of 
rejuvenation and continuous relevance. Like his predecessors, he came 
up with robust and ambitious programmes, aimed at repositioning the 
Scheme as a self-sufficient and revenue -- generating government 
organisation. 
This chapter will attempt an appraisal of the delivery of these specific 
goals by the administration of Gen S Ibrahim within a short period of 
two years, in spite of the huge challenges facing the Scheme. 
Sustain effective utilisation of the potentials of Corps Members for 
optimal benefit. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND SAED                                                        BJ Audu and M. Hamza  
320 
 
The successful conduct of the 2019 NYSC Sports and Cultural Festivals 
is a remarkable achievement of the Director General in harnessing the 
huge potentials of the Corps Members for national development. The 
NYSC Sports and Cultural Festivals serve as one of the veritable 
avenues through which the Scheme promotes national unity, cultural 
integration, as well as showcasing the abundant talents of Corps 
Members in the areas of sports and culture for gainful employment in 
the sports and film industries. The Festivals were revived by the 
present management. The grand finale was held in Abuja. Not only that, 
measures were put in place to ensure that the event holds annually. 
Another success of the NYSC Director General is the production of an 
NYSC movie titled "A Call to Service" currently undergoing post 
production work. Apart from its entertainment value, the movie is 
being packaged to create public awareness on the roles of stakeholders 
to the Scheme. These stakeholders include the three tiers of 
government, Corps employers, as well as serving and prospective Corps 
Members. Ultimately, the film will promote better understanding of the 
Scheme to the public, in addition to sensitising them on their expected 
roles to the Scheme. 
Another noteworthy achievement of the Director General is the 
establishment of NYSC National Cultural Troupe. This initiative is to 
provide a veritable platform for Corps Members to develop their 
talents in drama and cultural dance, while also eliciting public support 
towards harnessing such talents through private and corporate 
patronage. Remarkably, the NYSC Cultural Troupe will also shore up 
the revenue base of the Scheme through its activities which will be 
commercialised.  
In the same vein, the NYSC Director General has successfully organised 
a National Anti-Corruption Walk. This is in furtherance of the NYSC's 
contributions to the fight against corruption through the activities of 
the Corps Anti-Corruption and Integrity CDS Group. The programme 
involved the participation of thousands of Corps Members in the first 
ever nationwide rally/road walk organised by the Economic and 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
321 
 
Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), in conjunction with the Federal 
Ministry of Youth and Sports Development on 14th February, 2020. 
The Director-General personally joined the Corps Members and 
officials in Kano State for the rally, which was tagged “Nigerian Youths 
March Against Corruption.”  
This action further boosted the commitment of the NYSC in eradicating 
corruption and promotion of good moral and ethical values in the 
country. 
The outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic nearly crippled the global 
socio-economic activities and did not spare the Scheme. The 2020 
Batch “A” Orientation Course was suspended barely eight days into the 
programme. However, the ever resourceful and proactive Director 
General challenged the creative ingenuity of Corps Members who 
responded appropriately to the challenge by producing non-
pharmaceutical intervention materials such as face-mask, liquid soap, 
alcohol - based hand sanitiser and donated same to the indigent 
populace across the length and breadth of the country. 
Under the leadership of Gen Ibrahim, the NYSC has also carried out 
public awareness campaigns on containment measures for the dreaded 
virus. The initiative of the Director General was later adopted by some  
public institutions. 
Another innovative contribution of the NYSC in the fight against COVID-
19 pandemic is the fabrication of foot-operated water, liquid soap and 
hand sanitiser dispenser by individual Corps Members in several 
States.  
For instance,  Babatunde Dolapo Dayo and Sebe Godspower - Abia 
State; Abdullahi Sani - Kano; Abdulsalam Abubakar and Obiefuna 
Ebuka - Kwara; Adeyanju Adeyemi, Afolabi Victor, Ogunmoye Victor - 
Oyo and Onyekwere Chiwotaoke – Zamfara and Ilori Deborah - FCT 
were among the Corps Members that fabricated and donated the 
devices. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND SAED                                                        BJ Audu and M. Hamza  
322 
 
In addition, Corps Members, acting on the platform of Charity 
CDS/SDGs Group, have been contributing towards mitigating the effects 
of the COVID-19 at the grassroots, through the donation of food and 
other relief items to State and Local Governments, as well as indigent 
members of the society. These strategies by the Director General paved 
the way for the Scheme to obtain approval from the National Centre for 
Disease Control (NCDC) to resume full operations, especially the 
Orientation Course. 
Relatedly, several Corps Members on teaching assignment also 
contributed towards sustaining the educational progress of their 
students by adopting virtual teaching approach while schools remained 
closed as a result of the pandemic.  
As per the pursuit of a technologically-driven organisation to deepen 
effective service delivery, the Director-General recently conducted the 
first ever video conference with the 2021 Batch ‘A’ Stream 1 Corps 
Members in all the 37 Orientation Camps. It was an avenue to interface 
with thousands of Corps Members simultaneously, in line with COVID-
19 safety protoocols. He has sustained this initiative by periodically 
holding virtual meetings with serving Corps Members, as well as NYSC 
State Coordinators across the country. 
It is gratifying to disclose that the Director General's interface with 
National Information Technology Development Agency ( NITDA) has 
ensured the equipping of the NYSC Rivers Secretariat with computers 
by the agency. That singular gesture has in no small measure deepened 
the proficiency of Corps Members and staff members in the area of 
Information technology. 
The Chief Executive introduced the inscription of date of birth on the 
Certificate of National Service and Exclusion Letter, beginning with the 
2019 Batch “A” Corps Members and 2019 Batch “C” respectively. This is 
in a bid to check the manipulation of date of birth by ineligible persons 
seeking mobilisation for National Service, and it has had a positive 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
323 
 
effect in checkmating the falsification of records for employment, visa, 
political appointments, among others. 
Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim conceptualised and designed a state-of-the-
art ICT Office for the Scheme. The design had already been  forwarded 
to the Federal Capital Development Authority ( FCDA) and Federal 
Ministry of Works and Housing for approval. The cost of construction 
was approprated in the 2021 Budget, and the Scheme is awaiting the 
release of funds for its commencement.  
Other laudable efforts by Gen Ibrahim to deepen effective service 
delivery include, the development of a Five-Year Strategic Development 
Plan for the Scheme, review of the NYSC Composite  Policy Document 
and documentation of the activities of the Scheme, all aimed at 
positioning the Scheme as a research hub for academics and the 
general public. 
Under his watch, the Federal Government drafted the NYSC into the 
Presidential Steering Committee on Alternate School Programme. The 
inclusion of the Corps in the Committee is in recognition of the 
invaluable contributions of the Scheme to national development, 
particularly in the sphere of Education. 
NYSC is a repository of talents, parading the most enlightened class of 
Nigerian youths, who in forty - eight years of the Scheme's existence 
have continued to make varying degrees of multi-sectoral contributions 
to the growth and well-being of the nation.  
Therefore, the inclusion of the Scheme, whose visibility has been top-
notch in the last two years as member of the Mambila Hydro Power 
Project speaks on the high premium the Federal Government places on 
the Corps. 
Undoubtedly, membership of these august bodies have clearly 
underscored the high pedestal the Director General has taken the 
Scheme in his two years of his eventful and remarkable administration.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND SAED                                                        BJ Audu and M. Hamza  
324 
 
In respect of improving the welfare and security of Corps Members and 
staff, in a rare demonstration of empathy and commitment to the 
welfare of Corps Members, the Director General personally visited and 
encouraged Corps Member Saidu Mohammed Adamu, who was 
admitted at the Federal Teaching Hospital, Ado-Ekiti, as a result of 
gunshot injuries that he sustained while on election duties during the 
recent bye-election held in Ekiti East Local Government Area of Ekiti 
State in March 2021.  
Similar visits were also paid to several members of the Service Corps 
on admission in hospitals in Sokoto, Katsina, Edo, Plateau, Taraba and 
Kwara States, among others, following their involvement in road traffic 
accidents. 
The Director General has also paid condolence and reassuring visits to 
the families of deceased and missing Corps Members in Plateau, 
Kaduna and Edo States. Such gestures have increased the confidence of 
Corps Members and their families in the Scheme, and have also 
engendered more zeal for patriotic service by the members of the 
Corps. 
The Director General further demonstrated his commitment to Corps 
welfare by procuring prosthetic limbs for a Corps Member in 
furtherance of his welfare policy. The sum of Thirty-two Million Naira 
(N32,000,000.00) was expended to procure the limbs for Corps 
Member, Nuraddeen Tahir from Kano State, who, along with other 
Corps Members, was involved in a road traffic accident, while on his 
way to report for Primary Assignment after the 2019 Batch ‘B’ Stream 1 
Orientation Course in Taraba State. The Corps Member, who had earlier 
lost an arm at a younger age, had the other one amputated as a result of 
the accident. The artificial limbs have already been supplied, while 
Nuraddeen was trained on the effective use of the limbs before he was 
re-united with his family. With this development, he can now 
effectively perform normal tasks such as writing with the limbs. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
325 
 
The Director General relentlessly pursued the issue of increment of 
Corps Members’ allowance in the wake of approval of the new National 
Minimum Wage. His effort paid-off and the allowance of Corps 
Members was increased from Nineteen thousand, Eight hundred Naira 
( N19800.00) to Thirty-three Thousand Naira (N33,000.00). Following 
the commencement of the payment of the new rate with effect from 
January 2020, the Director General along with the Honourable Minister 
of Youth and Sports Development and some representatives of Corps 
Members paid a “Thank-you” visit to His Excellency, the President and 
Commander-in-Chief, Armed Forces, Federal Republic of Nigeria, 
Muhammadu Buhari GCFR on 6th February, 2020 at the Presidential 
Villa, Abuja. 
 
Following improvement in the security situation in the country, the 
Director General sought for, and got approval from the Federal 
Government for a return to the earlier suspended ceremonial passing-
out of Corps Members. Accordingly, the Passing-Out Ceremony of the 
2019 Batch ‘A’ Corps Members was marked with colorful parades 
nationwide, thereby increasing the visibility of the NYSC.   
The successful conduct of Orientation courses is also another 
achievement of the Director General as he oversaw the successful 
conduct of the 2019 Batch ‘B’ Streams I and II, as well as 2019 Batch ‘C’ 
Streams I and II Orientation Courses. 
As a proactive measure, NYSC Management suspended the 2020 Batch 
‘A’ Stream 1 Orientation Course just a week into the exercise as a 
deliberate effort to avert the spread of COVID-19 in the Orientation 
Camps. The commendable action equally brought to the fore his 
concern for the health and general well-being of Corps Members and 
staff. 
In recognition of his efforts at curtailing the spread of COVID-19, 
Victims Support Funds ( VSF), an organisation chaired by Lt Gen TY 
Danjuma donated 60,000 RDT test kits to the Scheme. The kits are used 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND SAED                                                        BJ Audu and M. Hamza  
326 
 
for the screening of prospective Corps Members and camp officials for 
COVID-19 in NYSC Orientation camps nationwide.  
In his quest to expand the administrative structure of the Scheme, the 
Director General ensured the smooth take - off of the NYSC Area Offices, 
whose approval had earlier been secured by the immediate past 
administration of Gen Kazaure, one in each of the six geo-political zones 
of the country, headed by a Director on salary grade level 17. This feat 
has opened up more vacancies, allowing for posting of other cadre of 
staff alongside the Directors to man the Offices. The Area Offices are 
located in Kaduna (North West), Niger (North Central), Bauchi (North 
East), Enugu (South East), Osun (South West) and Delta (South South) 
have since taken off and have in no mean way boosted staff morale and 
operations of the Scheme. 
 
In line with one of the cardinal points of his policy thrust, the Director 
General has been pursuing policies that are geared not only towards 
motivating staff, but also promoting industrial harmony in the Scheme. 
This has been aptly demonstrated through prompt payment of 
entitlements, capacity building programmes, as well as timely and 
transparent conduct of promotion examinations. During the 2020 
Promotion Exercise for instance, One Thousand Seven Hundred and 
Eighteen (1,718) out of the Two Thousand One Hundred Fifty-One 
(2,151) officers that participated in the event were elevated to the next 
grade level after meeting the requirements stipulated in the Public 
Service Rules and NYSC Conditions of Service. Additionally, the 2021 
Senior Staff Promotion Examination recorded a huge success. The 
impact of these promotion exercises has reinforced the commitment of 
staff to work for an enhanced performance. 
Meanwhile, as Management strives to enhance the motivation of staff, 
much premium is laid on the need to have a highly disciplined 
workforce. In this regard, officers who commit infractions are 
reprimanded in line with the provisions of the Public Service Rules 
(PSR). 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
327 
 
On strengthening the existing collaboration with critical stakeholders, 
on assumption of office, the Director General saw the dire need to 
sustain and strengthen the existing collaboration with critical 
stakeholders to garner more support and involve them in the 
management of the Scheme. He therefore embarked on advocacy visits 
to the stakeholders such as the former Head of State, General Yakubu 
Gowon, whose administration founded the Scheme. The Director-
General has had interface with the 36 State Governors, the Governor of 
the Central Bank of Nigeria, heads of Security and Anti-Corruption 
Agencies, Federal Road Safety Corps, among other stakeholders. The 
impact of this initiative is the improvement already being achieved in 
stakeholders’ support to the Scheme which is of great essence. 
The Director General also addressed a meeting of the Nigeria 
Governors’ Forum – the first of such engagement by any Chief 
Executive of the Scheme. He used the occasion of the meeting to 
appreciate the State Governors for their support to the Scheme, 
through various intervention projects in their respective States. He 
drew their attention to other areas that needed to be addressed, being 
part of the obligations of the State Governments to the Corps, as spelt 
out in the NYSC Act. 
Consequently the hosting of the meeting of NYSC top Management with 
the representatives of State Governments and the Federal Capital 
Territory Administration, a fallout of the meeting with the Governor's 
Forum is aimed at strengthening the collaboration with the Scheme, 
with a particular focus on the discharge of the statutory obligations of 
the States and FCT to the NYSC, as spelt out in its enabling Act. 
The impact of the meeting is profound, as several State Governments 
have made remarkable gestures in support of the Scheme. Prominent 
among them is the donation of two NYSC permanent Orientation camps 
by Edo and Anambra States, plans by the Lagos State Government to 
build a 14,000 -- capacity Orientation camp and the ongoing upgrading 
and rehabilitation of camp facilities in twenty five States, while the 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND SAED                                                        BJ Audu and M. Hamza  
328 
 
expansion of camp facilities has commenced in nine States to meet the 
5,000 -- Corps Member and 500 -- course official -- capacity camp. 
Other notable gains derived from the meeting include, constitution of 
functional NYSC State Governing Boards in seventeen States, with 
eighteen States enhancing the regular payment of state allowance to 
Corps Members, provision and upgrading of transit camps for Corps 
Members in thirty -- one states, provision of watertight security for 
Corps Members in all the States and the FCT, issuance of circulars by 
State Governments against the rejection of Corps Members, increased 
partnership with the Association of Local Governments of Nigeria 
(ALGON), provision of decent accommodation or payment of allowance 
in lieu of that to Corps Members and provision of office and residential 
accommodation by the States hosting the Headquarters of the Area 
Offices. 
In Promoting NYSC/Media relations, the Director General has since 
assumption of duty, strived to strengthen the cordial relations the 
Scheme enjoys with the Media. This, he kick-started with his maiden 
chat with Editors, Bureau Chiefs and Youth Correspondents of various 
Media Organisations in the country on 15th August, 2019. Brig Gen S 
Ibrahim also paid courtesy visits to Media offices in Abuja, including 
the Headquarters of the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA), News 
Agency of Nigeria (NAN), Media Trust Limited and Leadership Group 
Limited.  Similar visits with Director-General’s directive were also 
made to Lagos Head Offices of The Punch, Daily Sun, The Nation 
newspapers, among others. He has consistently maintained his Media-
friendly posture, thereby attracting wider publicity for the Scheme’s 
activities.  
To deepen and sustain the wide publicity that the Scheme has enjoyed, 
he has resuscitated the production and airing of the NYSC Half Hour 
programme on NTA International Channel 251 and Armed Forces 
Radio FM.  So far, plans have reached an advanced stage to establish the 
first ever NYSC FM Radio that will be useful to adequately drive the 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
329 
 
publicity efforts of the Scheme and showcase its activities to Nigerians 
and the entire world. 
The Director-General in furtherance of his transparent, inspirational 
and all-inclusive style of administration paid visits to some former 
Chief Executives of the Scheme. The gesture was aimed at appreciating 
their respective contributions to the development of Scheme when they 
were in the saddle of leadership, and also tap into their vast wealth of 
experience. The former Chief Executives appreciated the initiative as it 
was the first ever visit paid simultaneously to them. 
The maiden meeting with the Registrars of some Foreign Corps 
Producing Institutions was also held, having, uncovered the fraudulent 
activities of some tertiary institutions in Africa, especially in the West 
Africa sub region which have the penchant to issue questionable 
academic certificates to unqualified persons, who in turn present same 
to get mobilised for national service. The Director-General has 
commenced an aggressive fight against this menace which has earned 
him the commendation of the President, His Excellency Muhammadu 
Buhari GCFR, during his address at the 2018/2019 President's NYSC 
Honours Award Ceremony. Similar commendations were given to him 
by a broad spectrum of vice chancellors of some indigenous and foreign 
institutions, including the Honourable Minister of Education. 
In addition to hosting the meeting with the Registrars, internal 
mechanisms have been put in place for easier detection of unqualified 
persons attempting to present themselves for mobilisation for service.  
As a result of the stance of Management, some of the foreign 
institutions are now volunteering to alert NYSC of suspected fraudulent 
practices by their students. Interestingly, out of over twenty thousand 
(20,000) persons who registered online as foreign-trained prospective 
Corps Members of the 2019 Batch ‘C’ Service Year, only three thousand, 
four hundred and twenty (3,420) turned up for the pre-mobilisation 
physical screening of their credentials.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND SAED                                                        BJ Audu and M. Hamza  
330 
 
To serve as a deterrent to others, sixty-five (65) unqualified persons 
arrested during the 2019 Batch ‘B’ Stream II Orientation Course in 
camps across the country are being prosecuted with some convictions 
already secured. These steps taken by Management have helped to 
create national awareness, especially on the need for parents and 
guardians to check the accreditation status of the institutions attended 
by their wards, and also monitor their academic progress. 
The bold move by the Director General in sanitising the mobilisation 
process will also ensure that only well trained and competent persons 
occupy critical positions that will fast-track the development of the 
country.  
The Director-General has equally hosted a national sensitisation 
programme on the NYSC Act on 24th July, 2019 in Abuja. Prior to this, it 
was clear that many Nigerians were not aware of the provisions of the 
Act – a situation that has led to avoidable infractions. With the 
sensitisation, which is still on-going, organisations and individuals are 
now having better understanding of their obligations to the Scheme. In 
particular, cases of evasion and abscondment from Service, especially 
by the foreign-trained Nigerian graduates, are expected to reduce 
drastically.  
Broadly looking at the reinvigoration of the NYSC ventures and skill 
acquisition and entrepreneurship development programme in line with 
NYSC Act for greater impact, the Director General has been speaking 
passionately about his desire to make the Skill Acquisition and 
Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) Programme and NYSC 
Ventures Management Departments more functional. 
 
To match words with actions, he has taken several steps towards 
reinvigorating the SAED programme, including, but not limited to the 
following: 
• Renewal of commitment by the NYSC and Bank of Industry 
towards the resuscitation of empowerment of Corps 
entrepreneurs with business loans under the BOI-NYSC 
Graduate Empowerment Fund. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
331 
 
• Intensive monitoring of GEF beneficiaries. 
• New collaboration with NIRSAL Microfinance Bank on 
empowerment of Corps entrepreneurs. 
• New partnership with Unity Bank Plc on a programme named 
‘Allawee’ aimed at empowering Corps members.  
• Collaboration with British-American Tobacco Foundation on 
empowerment of Corps Members with agricultural skills and 
business trainings, farm internship, mentoring and farm input 
supplies. 
• Hosting of the 2020 NYSC SAED Stakeholders meeting aimed at 
reviewing the programme implementation strategies, as well as 
strengthening of existing partnerships and exploring new ones 
for further technical and material support. 
• Pursuing the completion of the North West Skill Acquisition 
Centre in Kazaure, Jigawa State, this is now at advanced stage. 
• Commencement of work on the North Central Skill Acquisition 
Centre in Keffi, Nasarawa State. 
• Research-based collaboration with OAU-NACETEM sponsored 
by a Canadian Agency, International Development Research 
Centre on evaluation of the impact of SAED and reinvigorating 
it for greater impact. 
• Resuscitation of NYSC Water Factory and Bakery at NYSC 
Orientation Camp Kubwa. The NYSC Water Factory and Bakery 
were revived and revitalised by the Director-General 
immediately he assumed office, and these two ventures are now 
producing at full capacity. The water and bread produced in 
these ventures are being supplied to the FCT, Nasarawa, Kogi, 
Kaduna and Niger State Orientation camps and the general 
public. These ventures now generate revenue to the Scheme 
and help Corps Members acquire skills too. 
• Purchase of modern farm equipment for the four NYSC 
functional farms namely, NYSC Farm Kwali in FCT, Saminaka, 
Kebbi State, Dungulbi, Bauchi State and Iseyin Oyo State. Each 
of these farms now has tractors and other basic farm 
equipment. 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND SAED                                                        BJ Audu and M. Hamza  
332 
 
• The consistent support in terms of funding and staffing has 
increased the hectares under cultivation from 60 hectares to 
160 hectares during the 2020 farming season. 
• Reclaiming of NYSC farmland at Ezillo which hitherto was 
collected by the Ebonyi State Government. Immediately after 
the reclaiming, tractor was purchased for farming operations at 
the Ezillo Farm. 
• The structure of Ventures Management Department was 
expanded which gave room for the promotion of staff, and has 
in no mean way motivated the staff members. 
• Registration of the two NYSC Garment Factories, Water Factory 
and Bakery with the Corporate Affairs Commission. Arising 
from the last Meeting of the NYSC Top Management with 
Representatives of State Governments, the Governors of Edo 
and Ekiti States announced the donation of land for the siting of 
two garment factories which will boost the production of Corps 
Members’ kit items. 
• Developing partnership with relevant institutions such as 
International Institute for Tropical Agriculture (IITA), National 
Agricultural Land Development Agency (NALDA), NCRI, NCAM, 
ARMTI, NCAC etc. to enhance the productivity of NYSC 
Farms/Ventures among others. 
• Resuscitation of moribund NYSC Feedmill, Lagos. The mill is 
now ready to start production of animal feeds. 
• Construction of new poultry pen at NYSC farm Kwali, FCT. 
• The Director General has met with the State Governors and 
other stakeholders with a view to securing land in all the States 
for agricultural production. 
 
In addition to the above, twelve States have opened up their skills 
centres for the post camp training of Corps Members to further 
strengthen the skills and entrepreneurship training acquired in camp. 
• The tremendous support given by the Director General has 
repositioned all the NYSC Ventures for greater revenue 
generation for the Scheme.  
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
333 
 
 
Interestingly, the Scheme paid into the national coffers over Two 
Hundred and Eighty Million Naira ( N280, 000,000.00) as internally 
generated revenue which is unprecedented in the annals of the Scheme. 
The Director General who has introduced the use of name tags by every 
member of staff for easy identification, equally in an unprecedented 
move sought the help of the Federal Government in tackling the 
ecological challenges confronting some of the NYSC Orientation camps. 
Government granted the request through the deployment of Ecological 
Fund to tackle the menace. Eight camps have been approved as 
beneficiaries in the first phase of the intervention. Already, work is 
ongoing in Cross River, Taraba, FCT and Nasarawa Orientation camps.  
 
In recognition of his service to the nation, Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim 
who has institutionalised Farewell Parade for outgoing NYSC Chief 
Executives - a novelty, has received numerous commendations and 
awards which include:  
• Chief of Army Staff Award as the Overall Best Participant for 
2013 NAEC Executive Management Course. 
• Nigerian Institute of Public Relations (NIPR) Special 
Recognition Award 2014. 
• Award for Distinguished Professional Contributions to Public 
Service/Fellowship (FCAI) by Institute of Corporate 
Administration. 
• Professional National Award (Historical Society of Nigeria HSN) 
and 
• Chief of Army Staff Commendation Letter 2018.  
 
Conclusion 
The above discourse has given an insight on the achievements of 
General Shuaibu Ibrahim since becoming the Director General of the 
National Youth Service Corps. Within the last two years, the Scheme has 
made some giant strides owing to the pursuit of strict implementation 
of the Director General’s five-point policy thrust. Therefore, the 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND SAED                                                        BJ Audu and M. Hamza  
334 
 
contributions of Brig Gen Ibrahim to the NYSC since his ascension into 
office cannot be overemphasised. These contributions are indeed 
remarkable, and will undoubtedly stand the test of time, having set the 
Scheme on growth trajectory and continuous relevance.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim: 
335 
 
Bibliography 
 
A. J. Afolayan et al. Selected Speeches and Strides of the 18th NYSC 
Director General: Brigadier General S. Ibrahim, Abuja: NYSC 
National Directorate Headquarters, 2020. 
Achebe C. The Trouble with Nigeria, Enugu: Fourth Dimension 
Publishers, 1998. 
Appadorai A, The Substance of Politics, London: Oxford University 
Press, 2004. 
Audu B.J. “Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim and the Reinvigoration of NYSC,” 
in C.C.C. Osakwe et al (eds.) War, Society and Leadership in 
Nigeria: Essays in Honour of Brigadier General Shuaibu 
Ibrahim, Kaduna: Nigerian Defence Academy Press. 
Economic Confidential, NYSC: Rebranding for Revenue Generation, 
Youth Empowerment-Brig. Shuaib, D.G”, Vol. 13 (154), July, 
2020. 
Gen. Ibrahim attended NAEC (Nigerian Army Education Corps), Young 
Officers Course 1994; Infantry (INF) Young Officers Course 
1996; Training Development Advisers Course (TDA) 2004; and 
NAEC Officers’ Executive Management Course, 2013. Cited in 
The Nation, “NYSC: As a Patriot Assumes Duty”, February 19, 
2019.  
Klingborg D.J. “Leadership and Professional Development,” in Journal of 
Veterinary Medical Education, Davis: University of California, 
2006. 
Media Evaluation of Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim, 2020. 
NYSC National Directorate Headquarters, Selected Speeches and 
Strides of the 18th NYSC Director General, Compiled May 2020, 
by the Special Duties Department. 
NYSC News in A Journal of NYSC Directorate Headquarters, Abuja: 
NYSC Publication. 
NYSC. Media Assessment  
 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC AND SAED                                                        BJ Audu and M. Hamza  
336 
 
Sharma, M.K. and S. Jain. “Leadership Management: Principles, Models 
and Theories,” in Global Journal of Management and Business 
Studies. ISSBN 2248-9878 Volume 3, Number 3, 2013. 
 
Oral Interview 
 
Interviews with NYSC Coordinator   
Jibril Umar, Head of Ventures Kubwa, 50+, Interviewed at Kubwa 
Abuja, 15/3/21 
Emeka -- Rems Mgbemena, Deputy Director and Head, Publications 
Division, Press and Public Relations Unit, NYSC National 
Directorate Headquarters, Abuja, 50+, Interviewed at Abuja, 
15/3/21 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Abdullahi, H., 193, 206, 
Abdullahi, R. I., iv, 42, 
Abdullahi, T. F., 256, 
Abdulrahman, D. A., 279, 
Abubakar Audu University, iv, 
Adam, M. C., iii, 304, 
Adebayo, A. A., 212, 234, 
Adejumo, G., 53, 58, 
Adeleye, R., 78, 79, 
Adetunji, F., 93, 97, 99, 100, 103, 
105, 110, 112, 113, 
Adewusi, A. A., 43, 54, 58, 83, 87, 
177, 185, 
Adisa, B. J., 43, 54, 58, 177, 185, 
Adofu, I., 312, 314, 
African Union, 295, 
Agu, E., 53, 58, 269, 
Agu, U., 269, 272, 
Ahmad, M. S., 213, 235, 
Ahmadu Bello University, iii, 
Ahmed, A. O., xii, 
Aja-Okorie, A., 176, 185, 
Akande, T. T., 47, 58, 
Akuegwu, B., 3, 10, 22, 
Akume, A. T., 279, 
Akwa Ibom State, 295, 
Alao, O., 172, 185, 
Amadi, O. B., 193, 206, 
Anambra state, 268, 
Ani, J. K., 239, 253, 
armed banditry, 215, 
robbery, 43, 296, 
ARMTI, 105, 
Arubayi, D. O. 125, 278, 286, 
Asein, S. O., 267, 272, 
Audu, B. J., iii, xii, 
Babalola, H., 244, 252, 
Babatunde, I., 70, 87, 
backward integration, 91, 
Bankole, S., 38, 39, 40, 
Bashir, S., 31, 40, 
Bawa, M. M., 284, 286, 
Bayelsa State, 107, 299, 
Becker, G. S., 242, 252, 
Bell, S., 90, 117, 
Bodley-Bond, C., 246, 252, 
Boniface, O. I., iv, 189, 
brain drain, 43, 
337
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Brazil, 239, 305, 
Bula, H. O., 2, 22, 
business development, 151, 
capacity-building, 141, 231, 251, 
character development, 246, 
Chikamnayo, E., 170, 185, 
Chikwe, C. K., 248, 252, 
China, 165, 
Chiwar, L. C., iii, 287, 
Christopher, L., 105, 106, 
Chukwuemeka, O., 173, 187, 
CILRM, 231, 
civil war, 60, 287, 
climate change, 288, 301, 
corpreneurship challenge, 159, 
corruption, viii, 
COVID-19, 180, 
CSLCMO, xii, 
CSR, 293, 
cultism, 298, 299, 
cultural barriers, 28, 
cybercrime, 43, 
Damilola, A., 203, 206, 
Danga, J. Y ., iii, 211, 
Deebom, M. B., 67, 87, 151, 166, 
178, 187, 239, 252, 304, 
306, 310, 314, 
deployment, 172, 296, 
digital branding, 83, 
marketing, 83, 
Diigbo, G., 198, 206, 
Douli, J. C., 194, 206, 
DTA, 284, 
Eberly, D. J., 172, 185, 246, 252, 
272, 
economic development, 123, 130, 
170, 257, 274, 275, 
sustainability, 291, 
ECOWAS, 295, 
Eda, G., 291, 302, 
Ede, S., 170, 185, 
EFCC, 27, 
Egbetokun, A., 84, 87, 
Eke, O, 204, 206, 
Ekeocha, J., 95, 
election violence, 298, 
Emefiele, G., 140, 
Enegwea, G., 258, 260, 261, 264, 
266, 272, 
environmental degradation, 291, 
301, 
Erhirheme, P. E., 239, 240, 252, 
ethno-religious crisis, 215, 
Etuk, E. J., 241, 253, 
evaluation, 50, 54, 55, 70, 154, 
183, 
examination malpractice, 298, 
299, 
FACOR, 93, 
Faloye, D. O., 177, 185, 310, 314, 
Faniyi, B. A., 103, 
Fatoki, O. O., 67, 167, 
FEAP, 91, 
financial planning, 74, 
Fletcher, A., 200, 206, 
FMARD, 96, 
food security, 95, 
Friedman, T., 242, 243, 
Gambo, S. K., 299, 302, 
Gilchrist, A., 295, 302, 
globalization, 291, 
Gowon, Y ., xiii, 30, 60, 307, 
green revolution, 91, 
Hamza, M., iii, xii, 124, 125, 147, 
Hamza, N., 27, 40, 
Haris, D. R., 260, 272, 
Henry, S. H., 213, 235, 
HIV/AIDS, 31, 94, 283, 293, 
338
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

human capital theory, 242, 244, 
development, 193, 205, 
241, 248, 249, 271, 
Hussaini, M., 193, 206, 
Ibadan, 300, 
Ibrahim, S., xii, 66, 72, 80, 84, 87, 
92, 94, 97, 101, 102, 109, 
125, 126, 127, 128, 147, 
162, 164, 166, 197, 270, 
296, 300, 302, 
ICAN, 33, 
ICPC, 27, 
Idoko, C. U., 4, 22, 
Idris, H. D., 40, 
Igba, E., 180, 186, 
IITA, 106, 265, 266, 
Ikaka, A. W., 93, 101, 104, 109, 
110, 
ILO, 157, 158, 179, 190, 206, 
immunization, 282, 
India, 305, 
Indonesia, 239, 305, 
INEC, 295, 
inequality, 288, 289, 
insecurity, viii, 215, 237, 
insurgency, 90, 
internship, 255, 
Isa, W., 180, 
Ishaq, S. B., iv, 255, 
Isolor, W. A., 238, 253, 
ITF, 98, 
Jhingan, M. L., 250, 253, 
Jimba, D. I., 193, 206, 
Jonathan, G. E., 199, 207, 
Jonker, J. 5, 7, 22, 
Kaduna State University, 111, 
168, 
Kauffman, J., 3, 4, 10, 11, 13, 14, 
17, 19, 22, 
Kayode, D. J., 245, 
Kazaure, S., 264, 
Kenedy, J., 221, 236, 
Key, S., 23, 
kidnapping, 43, 296, 
Kuti, Z., 193, 207, 
Lawal, A., iii, 24, 
Lawanson, O., 190, 207, 
leadership, 257, 307, 
Leo, O. O., iv, 237, 
Lot, C., 30, 41, 
Lynor, K., 291, 302, 
Maduawuchi, O., 307, 314, 
Mallick, S., 251, 253, 
materialization, 241, 
MDG, 24, 37, 115, 280, 281, 282, 
283, 285, 292, 293, 296, 
Mexico, 305, 
Michael, S., 170, 186, 
militancy, 296, 
mobilization, 46, 296, 
monitoring, 71, 114, 154, 
Muktar, J. I., iii, 1, 
Murtala, M. L., iv, 120, 
NALDA, 105, 
NAPEP, 65, 91, 216, 231, 305, 
Nasarawa state, 104, 
national cohesion, 238, 
consciousness, 27, 
development, 64, 67, 173, 
190, 193, 251, 
re-orientation, 274, 
nation-building, 170, 238, 287, 
294, 
NBTE, 122, 131, 133, 
NCAM, 104, 
NDE, 194, 
Nduka-Ozo, S. N., 23, 
NEEDS, 280, 286, 
339
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

Newitt, K., 90, 117, 
NIA, 256, 
Nigerian Defence Academy, iii, iv, 
NITDA, 175, 186, 
Njoku, A., 212, 235, 
Noe, R. A., 221, 235, 
Ntiwunka, G. U., 195, 207, 
Ntukogu, O. T., iv, 89, 
Nwouso, M., 33, 36, 41, 
NYIF, 113, 
Oba, J., 95, 98, 100, 
Obadare, E., 27, 41, 246, 253, 
OECD, 25, 243, 
Ogbonna, N., 202, 207, 
Ogidi, R., 248, 252, 
Ogoni, 304, 
Ogun state, 103, 
Ogundele, M. O., 245, 253, 307, 
314, 
Ogundowolo, E. K., 170, 187, 
Okafor, C., 239, 253, 
Okafor, E. E., 58, 
Okeke, M., 58, 
Oko, S. U., 299, 303, 
Okpara, J., 59, 
Okwelle, P. C., 239, 304, 305, 306, 
310, 314, 315, 
Olabode, D. O., 310, 314, 
Olaiya, T. A., 246, 253, 
Oluwaseun, A., 65, 70, 154, 156, 
228, 
Omuaha, G., 45, 59, 
Onwere, C., 276, 286, 
Onyishi, A. O., 238, 254, 315, 
orientation course, 56, 61, 228, 
277, 
Osinem, E. C., 312, 315, 
Osun state, 108, 
Oyebanji, M. A., 294, 302, 
Oyo state, 108, 
Padgelt, J. F., 151, 167, 
patriotism, 28, 275, 
Pennick, B., 5, 7, 22, 
Perold, H., 246, 254, 
Pollyn, B. S., 25, 41,
poverty reduction, 26, 295, 305, 
poverty, 213, 288, 296, 301, 
Prichard, J., 231, 236, 
primary assignment, 265, 277, 
productivity, 32, 
Pyla-Mak Publishers Ltd., ii, 
Raimi, L., 172, 186, 246, 254, 
reconciliation, xiii, 60, 
reconstruction, xiii, 60, 
rehabilitation, xiii, 60, 
Rivers State, 304, 
Robert, A., 213, 
Ronstadt, R. C., 45, 59, 
SACP, 295, 
Sahu, P. K., 6, 23, 
Salami, C.G.S, 191, 208, 
Saltzman, E. L., 2, 23, 
Samson, O. T., 28, 41, 
sanitation, 37, 
SAP, viii, 90, 
SDG, 24, 37, 38, 94, 100, 284, 
289, 290, 292, 296, 297, 
301, 
Segun, A., 74, 185, 
self-defence, 28, 
-empowerment, 214, 
-reliance, 69, 151, 
sensitization, 46, 62, 81, 176, 
Singh, G., 221, 235, 
Sirajo, H., iii, 
SMEDAN, 77, 97, 123, 
Sofoluwe, A. O., 245, 307, 314, 
SOWESS, 195, 
340
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

341
SSS, 256, 
Sule, A., 104, 
Tahir, A., 61, 87, 
Tanimu, Y ., 98, 104, 
Taylor, M., 295, 
teenage pregnancy, 298, 
TETFUND, 115, 
thurgery, 215, 
Tijani, S. A., 93, 113, 114, 
Timmons, J. A., 44, 59, 
Torikka, J., 212, 
trader money, x, 91, 
TSA, 270, 
Turkey, 239, 305, 
Udo, M. F., 2, 8, 18, 21, 23, 
Ugochukwu, O., 203, 208, 
Umar, A. Y ., iii, 60, 149, 168, 
Umar, J., 267, 268, 269, 270, 272, 
Umar, M. A., 2, 23, 
Umoden, G., 260, 264, 
UNDP, 25, 295, 
unemployment, 34, 42, 121, 140, 
148, 170, 190, 210, 208, 
211, 212, 215, 217, 218, 
237, 296, 308, 
UNESCO, 294, 
UNFPA, 76, 
UNGA, 37, 
UNITAR, 121, 
United Nations, 24, 37, 90, 124, 
257, 284, 288, 289, 293, 
302, 
University of London, 286, 
USA, 106, 
Ushie, E. M., 241, 254, 
Usman, I. S., 62, 69, 167, 303, 
Uzochukwu, N., 191, 208, 
VBE, 20, 
Victor, J. U., iii, 169, 
WAP, xi, 92, 100, 108, 116, 126, 
295, 297, 
Washington University, 170, 
WEF, 85, 
Wogu, C., 199, 208, 
World Bank, 241, 280, 302, 315, 
Yakubu Gowon House, xii, 
Yau', A., 298, 303, 
Yobe State, 33, 
Zubairu, N., iv, 274, 
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT

NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT
NYSC PUBLICATION 
NOT FOR SALE OR REPRINT